The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Journal of the American-Irish
Historical Society (Vol. V), by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society (Vol. V)

Author: Various

Editor: Thomas Hamilton Murray

Release Date: December 28, 2019 [EBook #61037]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY ***




Produced by Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This book was
produced from images made available by the HathiTrust
Digital Library.)






[Illustration:

  HON. JOHN C. LINEHAN.

  A Founder of the Society, and the first Treasurer-General of the same.
    Born in Macroom, County Cork, Ireland, Feb. 9, 1840. Died in
    Penacook (Concord), N. H., Sept. 19, 1905.
]




                              THE JOURNAL
                                 OF THE
                   AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

                                   BY

                        THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY,

                          _Secretary-General_.

                               VOLUME V.

                             BOSTON, MASS.,
                       PUBLISHED BY THE SOCIETY,
                                 1905.




[Illustration: AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY THAT THE WORLD MAY
KNOW. FOUNDED, A.D. 1897]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                           INTRODUCTORY NOTE.


The present is the fifth volume of the JOURNAL of the American-Irish
Historical Society. I desire to acknowledge the many courtesies received
during its preparation, and to express my deep appreciation of the same.
This volume sets forth the work done by the organization during the
year, presents several historical papers of value and contains other
matter of interest. All the volumes of the JOURNAL thus far issued have
received a cordial welcome and have been the recipients of the most
gratifying praise. It is hoped that the present work will be equally
well received. The Society continues to enjoy a prosperous existence,
has no indebtedness, and is constantly adding new members to its roll.

                                                           T. H. MURRAY.

 BOSTON, MASS.,
     Dec. 15, 1905.




                  OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY, A. D. 1905.


                          _President-General_,
                        =Hon. John D. Crimmins=,
                             New York City.

                       _Vice-President-General_,
                       =Hon. Joseph T. Lawless=,
                              Norfolk, Va.

                          _Secretary-General_,
                       =Thomas Hamilton Murray=,
                     36 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

                          _Treasurer-General_,
                       =Hon. John C. Linehan=,[1]
                             Concord, N. H.

                       _Librarian and Archivist_,
                          =Thomas B. Lawler=,
                             New York City.


                           EXECUTIVE COUNCIL,

                           The foregoing and

 =Hon. William McAdoo=, New York City.
 =Hon. Thomas J. Gargan=, Boston, Mass.
 =Thomas Addis Emmet, M. D.=, New York City.
 =Rev. John J. McCoy=, Chicopee, Mass.
 =Patrick F. Magrath=, Binghamton, N. Y.
 =Edward J. McGuire=, New York City.
 =Stephen Farrelly=, New York City.
 =James L. O’Neill=, Elizabeth, N. J.
 =Cyrus Townsend Brady=, New York City.
 =Major John Crane=, New York City.
 =Thomas J. Lynch=, Augusta, Me.
 =Francis C. Travers=,[2] New York City.
 =M. Joseph Harson=, New York City.
 =Col. John McManus=, Providence, R. I.
 =Hon. Patrick Garvan=, Hartford, Conn.
 =John J. Lenehan=, New York City.
 =John Jerome Rooney=, New York City.
 =Hon. William Gorman=, Philadelphia, Pa.
 =Hon. Francis Q. O’Neill=, Charleston, S. C.
 =James Connolly=, Coronado, Cal.


                         STATE VICE-PRESIDENTS.

 Maine—=James Cunningham=, Portland.
 New Hampshire—=Hon. James F. Brennan=, Peterborough.
 Vermont—=John D. Hanrahan, M. D.=, Rutland.
 Massachusetts—=Hon. Joseph H. O’Neil=, Boston.
 Rhode Island—=Thomas A. O’Gorman=, Providence.
 Connecticut—=Dennis H. Tierney=, Waterbury.
 New York—=Joseph I. C. Clarke=, New York City.
 New Jersey—=John F. Kehoe=, Newark.
 Pennsylvania—=Hugh McCaffrey=, Philadelphia.
 Delaware—=John J. Cassidy=, Wilmington.
 Virginia—=James W. McCarrick=, Norfolk.
 West Virginia—=John F. Healy=, Thomas, Tucker County.
 South Carolina—=Henry A. Molony=, Charleston.
 Georgia—=Capt. John Flannery=, Savannah.
 Ohio—=John Lavelle=, Cleveland.
 Illinois—=Hon. P. T. Barry=, Chicago.
 Indiana—=Very Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C.=, Notre Dame.
 Iowa—=Rt. Rev. Philip J. Garrigan, D. D.=, Sioux City.
 Montana—=Rt. Rev. M. C. Lenihan, D. D.=, Great Falls.
 Minnesota—=Hon. C. D. O’Brien=, St. Paul.
 Missouri—=Julius L. Foy=, St. Louis.
 Kentucky—=John J. Slattery=, Louisville.
 Tennessee—=Michael Gavin=, Memphis.
 Kansas—=Patrick H. Coney=, Topeka.
 Utah—=Joseph Geoghegan=, Salt Lake City.
 Texas—=Gen. A. G. Malloy=, El Paso.
 California—=John Mulhern=, San Francisco.


                         OTHER VICE-PRESIDENTS.

 District of Columbia—=Hon. Edward A. Moseley=, Washington.
 Arizona—=Col. O’Brien Moore=, Tucson.
 Indian Territory—=Joseph F. Swords=, Sulphur.

 Canada—=Hon. Felix Carbray=, Quebec.
 Ireland—=Dr. Michael F. Cox=, Dublin.




                   PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY, 1905.


                     THE ANNUAL MEETING AND DINNER.

The Society held its annual meeting and dinner on Tuesday evening, Jan.
24, 1905, at the Hotel Manhattan, 42d Street and Madison Avenue, New
York City. In the unavoidable absence of the President-General, until
late in the evening, Hon. Morgan J. O’Brien of New York presided. Thomas
Hamilton Murray of Boston, Mass., Secretary-General of the Society,
attended to the duties of the latter office. The following is a copy of
the notice for the event:


                   AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
                  NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING AND DINNER.

  DEAR SIR: The annual meeting and dinner of the American-Irish
  Historical Society will take place at the Hotel Manhattan, 42d
  Street and Madison Avenue, New York City, on Tuesday evening, Jan.
  24, 1905.

  A reception committee will be on duty at the Manhattan as early as 3
  p. m., to greet members of the Society and their guests, especially
  those coming from other cities and states.

  At 6.30 p. m. members and guests will be received by the officers of
  the Society.

  At 7 p. m. the annual meeting will be called to order.

  At 8 p. m. the line will be formed and proceed to the annual dinner.

  Tickets for the dinner will be $3.50 each, and are now ready for
  delivery. A dinner committee of New York members of the Society has
  been appointed and consists of Mr. John F. Doyle, 45 William Street;
  Major John Crane, 10 Bridge Street; Hon. Samuel Adams, 339–355 Sixth
  Avenue; Dr. J. Duncan Emmet, 103 Madison Avenue; Mr. James Curran,
  512 West 36th Street; Mr. Thomas B. Lawler, 70 Fifth Avenue; Mr.
  John Goodwin, 70 West 23d Street; Mr. James O’Flaherty, 22 North
  William Street, and Mr. P. Tecumseh Sherman, 15 William Street.

  Checks for dinner tickets should be made payable and forwarded to
  Mr. Doyle of the committee, at his address here given.

  During the dinner, selections will be rendered by one of the best
  orchestras in New York City, and there will also be vocal numbers by
  eminent soloists. The after-dinner exercises will include a number
  of brief addresses along the Society’s line of work by Hon. Hugh
  Hastings, State Historian of New York; Mr. Osborne Howes, Treasurer
  of the Boston Board of Fire Underwriters, and by other gentlemen.
  Mr. Howes, here mentioned, is a descendant of an Irishman who
  settled on Cape Cod, Mass., as early as 1657—nearly 250 years ago.

  Kindly state, as soon as possible, whether you intend to be present
  with us on the forthcoming occasion.

  Members may bring personal guests.

                                  Fraternally,
                                          WILLIAM MCADOO,
                                                  _President-General_.

  THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY,
                  _Secretary-General_,
                      36 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass.

The attendance was one of the largest ever present at a like event under
the auspices of the Society. The business session was of more than usual
interest, the annual reports elicited the closest attention, and the
whole affair was marked by a most commendable degree of enthusiasm.

Secretary-General Murray stated in his annual report that the following
members of the Society had died during the year:

 Capt. James F. Redding, Charleston, S. C.
 Mr. Bernard Foley, Boston, Mass.
 Mr. Patrick Farrelly, New York City.
 Rev. John F. Redican, Leicester, Mass.
 Mr. Patrick Brady, New York City.
 Rev. Francis D. McGuire, Albany, N. Y.
 John O’Flaherty, M. D., Hartford, Conn.
 Mr. Joseph P. Flatley, Boston, Mass.
 Mr. John H. Spellman, New York City, and
 Hon. John M. Fitzsimons, New York City.

The Secretary-General paid an appropriate tribute to each of the
foregoing, and fitting action in honor of the deceased was taken by the
Society.

It was stated by the Secretary-General that during the year the
following-named gentlemen had become Life members of the organization,
each paying $50:

 Mr. George J. Gillespie, New York City.
 Mr. Robert A. Sasseen, New York City.
 Mr. P. E. Somers, Worcester, Mass.
 Mr. Stephen Farrelly, New York City.
 Hon. Patrick Garvan, Hartford, Conn.
 Rev. Henry A. Brann, D. D., New York City.
 Hon. Jeremiah O’Rourke, Newark, N. J., and
 Mr. Patrick Gallagher, New York City.

The Secretary-General stated that during the year he had opened
temporary headquarters at 509 Fifth Avenue, New York, for the purpose of
securing new members and inducing members in arrears to settle their
indebtedness. Although able to devote but a few weeks to the work, the
result was very satisfactory.

During the year the Secretary-General collected and remitted to the
Treasurer-General, $1,247. “The Society is today,” said Mr. Murray, “in
as prosperous a condition as at any period since its formation, and we
hopefully look forward to many years of continued prosperity and
usefulness.”

Hon. John C. Linehan of Concord, N. H., Treasurer-General of the
Society, in his annual report stated that the total resources of the
Society for the year were $2,341.17; and the total expenditure,
$1,248.80, leaving a balance in the treasury, Dec. 31, 1904, of
$1,092.37.

The committee appointed to audit the Treasurer-General’s accounts,
reported the same as correctly kept and that all expenditures were
accompanied by proper vouchers.

The annual reports were unanimously accepted and adopted.

Mr. Joseph Smith of Lowell, Mass., moved as the sense of the Society,
that the latter heartily approves the project to erect a monument in
Washington, D. C., to Commodore John Barry. The motion was unanimously
adopted.

The annual election of officers for the Society then took place and
resulted in the choice of the gentlemen whose names are given on pages
5, 6 and 7 of this volume.

The following were elected to membership in the Society:

 Hon. Hugh Hastings, State Historian of New York, Albany, N. Y.
 Rev. James J. Baxter, D. D., Boston, Mass.
 Mr. T. Vincent Butler, New York City.
 Mr. Michael J. Morkan, Hartford, Conn.
 Mr. Edward R. Carroll, New York City.
 Mr. John Jay Joyce, New York City.
 Mr. D. H. McBride, New York City.
 Mr. P. H. Garrity, Waterbury, Conn.
 Mr. G. W. Lembeck, Jersey City, N. J.
 Mr. T. F. Donnelly, New York City.
 Mr. Patrick Murray, New York City.
 Mr. Arthur McAleenan, New York City.
 Hon. Lawrence O. Murray, Washington, D. C.
 Mr. Thomas Kenney, Worcester, Mass.
 Thomas F. Kenney, M. D., Vienna, Austria.
 M. X. Sullivan, Ph. D., Providence, R. I.


                           THE ANNUAL DINNER.

Upon the adjournment of the business meeting, the Society and guests
proceeded to the banquet room for the annual dinner. One hundred and
forty-five gentlemen participated.

Among those seated at the head table with Hon. Morgan J. O’Brien, the
presiding officer, were: Rev. Henry A. Brann, D. D., New York City; Hon.
Joseph F. Daly, New York City; Mr. Osborne Howes, Boston, Mass.; Hon.
John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H.; Hon. Hugh Hastings, Albany, N. Y.;
Thomas Addis Emmet, M. D., New York City; Mr. M. F. Dooley, Providence,
R. I.; Mr. John F. Doyle, New York City; Mr. Stephen Farrelly, New York
City, and Mr. Joseph I. C. Clarke, New York City.

After grace had been said the company devoted itself to the fine menu.

During the repast music was furnished by an orchestra. There was also
singing by the entire company, in chorus, and solo singing by Mr. John
W. Donovan of New York; Mr. Joseph M. Byrne of Newark, N. J., and Hon.
John C. Linehan of Concord, N. H.

At an interval during the dinner, Mr. Joseph Smith of Lowell, Mass.,
alluding to the approaching departure of James Jeffrey Roche, LL. D.,
for Genoa, Italy, as United States Consul, moved that the Society bid
him God-speed on his journey and wish him a brilliant career in his new
sphere of duty. The motion was adopted.

While the post-prandial exercises were in progress, Hon. William McAdoo
arrived and the chair was yielded him by Judge O’Brien.

The paper of the evening was by Hon. Hugh Hastings, State Historian of
New York, who took for his subject: “Thomas Dongan and the Earl of
Bellomont, Governors of New York.” The paper was one of great merit and
was frequently applauded.

Several brief addresses were made during the evening, having a bearing
on the Society’s line of work.

While the dinner was under way, a toast to President Roosevelt, “one of
our members,” was proposed by Hon. Thomas Z. Lee of Providence, R. I.,
and drank amid great enthusiasm.

The following letter written by President Roosevelt to Mr. William M.
Sweeny of Astoria, L. I., N. Y., a member of the Society, was read to
the company by Judge O’Brien:

  _My Dear Mr. Sweeny_: Replying to your letter of the 14th inst., I
  would say that my Irish ancestors came to Pennsylvania early in the
  seventeenth century. They included John Potts and his wife,
  Elizabeth McVaugh (so set down in the records; I do not know what
  the real name was); John Barnhill, whose wife was Sarah Craig, and a
  man named Lukens, who may have been a German from the Palatinate.

  They were all of them humble people, farmers, merchants, etc.,
  although Sarah Craig is put down as being descended on her mother’s
  side, through the Barnwalls, from various well known Irish families,
  both of the pale and outside the pale, the Butlers, the Fitzgeralds,
  O’Neills and O’Briens. But about this more illustrious descent I
  fear I cannot give you any specific particulars.

                                       Sincerely yours,
                                                   THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

The reading of the foregoing letter was received with great applause.

Letters expressing regret at inability to attend the dinner were
received from the following:

 Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York City.
 Gen. M. V. Sheridan, U. S. A. (retired), Washington, D. C.
 Rt. Rev. Philip J. Garrigan, D. D., Sioux City, Ia.
 Rev. Christopher Hughes, Fall River, Mass.
 James E. Sullivan, M. D., Providence, R. I.
 Mr. P. Tecumseh Sherman, New York City.
 Mr. George W. McCarthy, Portsmouth, N. H.
 Rev. James Coyle, Taunton, Mass.
 Daniel J. Phelan, M. D., New York City.
 Hon. Edward A. Moseley, Washington, D. C.
 Hon. Thomas J. Gargan, Boston, Mass.
 Col. James Moran, Providence, R. I., and
 John D. Hanrahan, M. D., Rutland, Vt.




                PATRIOTIC PILGRIMAGE TO LEXINGTON, MASS.


 INTERESTING OBSERVANCE BY THE SOCIETY OF THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE BATTLE
                           OF APRIL 19, 1775.

The Society held an interesting observance, April 19, 1905, the date
being the anniversary of the battle of Lexington, Concord and Cambridge,
fought in 1775. The programme comprised a patriotic pilgrimage to
Lexington, and other features of interest.

The Boston members, and their guests, went out to Lexington in
automobiles, leaving Boston about 10.15 a. m. Each member and guest wore
a neat badge, specially designed for the occasion, and comprising the
Revolutionary colors buff and blue. Each badge bore the initials of the
Society, “A. I. H. S.,” and the inscription, “Lexington, 1775–1905.”

Reaching Cambridge, the party stopped at the City Hall there and a call
was made on Hon. Augustine J. Daly, mayor of Cambridge. All the members
of the party were introduced to the mayor, who was assisted in receiving
by City Clerk Edward J. Brandon, J. Edward Barry, president of the board
of aldermen; Mr. Edward A. Counihan, mayor’s clerk, and other officials.

After the introduction and greetings, lunch was served. Leaving
Cambridge city hall, the party started for Lexington. Many historic
points were passed, including Harvard College, the Old Elm, where
Washington took command of the American Army, and a number of memorial
tablets.

Arriving at the Lexington town hall, the party was warmly welcomed by
Mr. George W. Taylor, chairman of the board of selectmen, and by other
officials of the town. All then walked to the battle monument on the
village green, where the Society placed a laurel wreath to the memory of
the patriotic dead. This wreath measured about three feet in diameter,
and was tied with buff and blue ribbon.

Assembled around the monument at this time, in addition to the members
of the Society, was a large gathering of the people of Lexington, and
visitors from out of town. After the wreath had been put in place on the
monument, an oration was delivered by City Clerk Brandon of Cambridge,
who dwelt upon the objects of the Society and the lessons of patriotism
inculcated by the observance of the day. Mr. Brandon’s remarks were
frequently applauded and at the close he was given an ovation. The
Society was then grouped, with the monument as a background, and a large
photograph of the whole taken.

The Society and guests, escorted by Chairman Taylor of the board of
selectmen, then proceeded to the latter’s beautiful residence,
“Larchmont,” where they were hospitably entertained. The ladies of the
party were specially taken charge of by Mrs. Taylor, while the gentlemen
were waited upon by Mr. Taylor and his talented daughter, Miss Amy Ethel
Taylor. An elaborate lunch was served, and then followed congratulatory
and patriotic addresses by a dozen or more of the visitors.

Following the lunch and the speech-making there was vocal and
instrumental music, the whole affair being one of great enjoyment.

Members of the Society were present, during the day, from Boston,
Cambridge, Lowell, Lexington and Springfield, Mass.; Providence and
Pawtucket, R. I.; Hartford, Conn.; and New York City.

Among those participating in the exercises were: Hon. Patrick Garvan of
Hartford, Conn., and his daughters, the Misses Agnes and Genevieve
Garvan; Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Murphy, Springfield, Mass.; Mr. and Mrs. T.
H. Murray, Boston, Mass.; Mr. and Mrs. Charles V. Ryan, Springfield,
Mass.; Miss M. Olive Murphy, Boston, Mass.; Mr. T. Vincent Butler, New
York City; Mr. Patrick Carter, Providence, R. I.; Mr. John F. Kinsela,
Lowell, Mass.; Mr. J. J. Cassidy, Lowell, Mass.; Mr. Bernard McCaughey,
Pawtucket, R. I.; Mr. T. P. Kelly, New York City; Mr. Bernard J. Joyce,
Boston, Mass.; Mr. M. H. Cox, Mr. Joseph F. O’Connell and other Boston
people; Mr. Christopher S. Ryan, Mr. Orlando Bowman and Rev. M. H.
Owens, all of Lexington, Mass., Mr. T. F. Gorman, Boston, Mass., and a
number of others.

The following is a copy of a letter from Selectman Taylor in connection
with the foregoing event, and received previous thereto:

               │      OFFICIAL      │OFFICE OF SELECTMEN.
               │       SEAL.        │

               │GEO. W. TAYLOR,     │    Selectmen of
               │H. A. C. WOODWARD,  │     Lexington.
               │FRANK D. PEIRCE,    │

                                      LEXINGTON, MASS., Mar. 24, 1905.

  _Thomas Hamilton Murray, Esq.,
        Sec’y of the American-Irish Historical Society,
                36 Newbury St., Boston, Mass._

  MY DEAR SIR: Your favor of the 22nd inst., relative to a patriotic
  pilgrimage of the American-Irish Historical Society on April 19th,
  is at hand.

  As Chairman of the Board of Selectmen, I shall be most happy to
  receive you at the Town Hall at noon, and will also be glad to
  attend your exercises on the Common, after which I should be
  pleased, if you find it convenient, to have you make an informal
  call at “Larchmont,” my home on Bedford Street, where I had the
  pleasure of meeting so many of your Society three years ago.

                           Very truly yours,

[Illustration:

  _Chairman, Board of Selectmen,
  Town of Lexington._
]




                  SOME INTERESTING HISTORICAL PAPERS.


 GOODY GLOVER, AN IRISH VICTIM OF THE WITCH CRAZE, BOSTON, MASS., 1688.

                          BY HAROLD DIJON.[3]

Leonard Scot, in his _Discoverie of Witchcraft_, gives this definition
of a witch: “The sort of such as are said to be witches are women which
be commonly old, lame, bleare-eied, pale, fowle, and full of wrinkles;
poore, sullen, superstitious, and Papists; or such as know no religion.”
Ralph Hoven, an Anglican divine, concedes: “All Papists be not witches,
but commonly all witches be the spawn of the Pope.”

The Rev. Josiah Templie, in a sermon preached at Rye in 1619, says:
“Because of witchcraft we have divers mischiefs and disorders; and
witches they be so long as there be Papists, drabs of the strumpet
Pope,” and so on. Oates, in _The Witchcrafts of the Roman Jezebel_—a
folio that brought him a considerable fortune,—repeats the foregoing
statements in language not printable.

John Cunliffe of Preston complained in 1596 that witchcraft was made a
plea for “burning those of the Old Religion; in moste parte they who be
in great povertie.” How many of those burned for witchcraft in England
were Catholics, it is not impossible to ascertain. Much material
appertaining to the subject waits to be investigated.

The opinion fostered in England that a witch, a devil, and a Catholic
were different terms for the same thing, was as sedulously cared for in
New England; and we find Cotton Mather, in his _Magnalia_, and in a
sermon preached in Old North Church, Boston, using virtually Scot’s
definition of a witch to describe the subject of this sketch.

“Glover,” he says, “was a scandalous old Irishwoman, very poor, a Roman
Catholic and obstinate in idolatry.”

A Boston merchant, one Robert Calef, who knew Mrs. Glover, writes of her
in _More Wonders of the Invisible World_, printed in London in 1700. The
sympathy he expresses for her was bold for the time, prevented the
publication of the work in Boston, brought on him the vituperations of
Cotton Mather, and caused the book to be burned in Harvard College yard,
by order of Harvard’s president, Dr. Increase Mather.

Calef says: “Goody Glover was a despised, crazy, poor old woman, an
Irish Catholic, who was tried for afflicting the Goodwin children. Her
behavior at her trial was like that of one distracted. They did her
cruel. The proof against her was wholly deficient. The jury brought her
guilty. She was hung. She died a Catholic.”

Drake, in his _Annals of Witchcraft in New England_, makes the following
comment on this passage: “Glover was not a crazy person, as we now
understand the word; it was not meant that she was insane, but simply
that she was weak and infirm.” We have not lost the old meaning of the
word; and such expressions as “a crazy table,” “a crazy structure,” are
quite common.[4]

Ann Glover [commonly called Goody Glover] and her daughter had been
living in Boston for some years prior to her execution in 1688. It is
not known what part of Ireland she came from. She herself has stated
that she and her husband were sold to the Barbadoes in the time of
Cromwell. She also related that, shortly after the birth of her
daughter, her husband was “scored to death and did not give up his
religion, which same I will hold to.”

How Mrs. Glover came to be in Boston can only be conjectured. It is
possible she came in that train of servants and Indian slaves brought to
the Puritan Colony from the Barbadoes, some of whom fell to the Rev. Mr.
Parris, of Salem fame. Little is known of her life in Boston before
1682, beyond the fact that the presence of a Catholic in a community
that looked upon itself as “the only Christian people” gave great
umbrage.

In 1682 a woman who had labored in vain to convince Mrs. Glover of her
“Papistical errors,” accused her of witchcraft; and, dying shortly
after, prophesied that “Goody Glover would be hung.” The prophecy was
not forgotten.

The mother and daughter were wretchedly poor, and barely able to make a
scant living by washing the clothes of such as could be induced to
employ a “Papist.” Among those who employed them was the family of John
Goodwin. John Goodwin had come to Boston from Charlestown, and was the
father of four children—Nathaniel, Martha, John and Mercy,—all of whom
were to be in the plot which did to death two harmless women, and which
“sadly perplexed and befooled Cotton Mather.”

Cotton Mather, who was charged in 1693 with being “the chief cause,
promoter and agent, and favourer of the prosecutions for witchcraft”!
Cotton Mather, who “countenanced the executioners by his presence, and
in various ways urged the terrible work of blood in Salem”! Cotton
Mather, who, from being extolled for sanctity and learning, has come to
be scoffed at as an “ignoramus, vain and mendacious”! Such was the
pastor of Old North Church, of which the Goodwins were “pillars.”

In 1687 Martha Goodwin, who was then a child of twelve years, charged
Mrs. Glover’s daughter with having purloined some clothes. The charge
was indignantly repelled, and accusation was made that Martha wished to
get Mrs. Glover into trouble. And then the daughter cried out: “You may
have us whipped, but to the sermons we will not go.” Hereupon, Martha
fell into a fit, which the “learned physicians of Boston declared to be
diabolical.”

I think you will agree with me, when Martha’s pranks are further
displayed, that the little girl had an attack of nerves and temper. What
between tirades against witches, Catholics, Baptists and Quakers, and
long sermons and long faces, the whole community was in a highly nervous
state. Cheerfulness was sinfulness. Read of that monstrous Pharisee of
five years old lauded in the _Magnalia_. She never laughed; she prayed
her mother might be one of the elect, even as she was.

Mrs. Glover and her daughter were now in sorer straits than ever. No one
would employ them, and had it not been for some secret aid they received
from the Calefs, who were not bereft of reason and humanity, they must
have starved. Even as it was, the treatment the daughter
received—“stonings and revilings”—turned her brain, and she died a
lunatic, frightened to death.

In the meanwhile, the lost clothes were found, by a woman employed in
the Goodwin household, “stuck under a wardrobe.” This discovery led to
no good results for Mrs. Glover, for now Mercy and the two Goodwin boys
had fits “like unto those of the maid Martha”; and then Martha took it
into her head to be again “afflicted.” The children asserted that the
spirit of Goody Glover struck them with blows, cut them with knives,
strangled them and sat on their chests. At devotions they pretended they
could hear nothing of what was said. “Goody Glover stopped their ears!
Goody Glover would have them worship her idols!” was their cry.

All this was so much gospel to a people saturated with prejudice; and
the Boston and Charlestown ministers held a fast at Mr. Goodwin’s house.
“The fast did greatly relieve the children.” Which goes to prove that if
Mr. Goodwin had “whipped them all soundly and sent them to bed,” they
would have been permanently cured.

But now “the magistrates, long annoyed by the presence of an obstinate
Papist in Boston, ordered Goody Glover to be taken into custody.” A
search was made of her house, “and certain images were found in secret.”
It is not difficult to conjecture what they were. Beads or medals,
maybe; certainly a cross or crucifix was one of them.

She was “loaded with chains” and placed in a prison. As no provision was
made to feed prisoners in Massachusetts at that time, her condition must
have been one of great distress. It is said that the Calefs continued to
succor her, and there is a statement that a Dame Nourse of Salem,
visiting Boston, gave her some aid. Can this be the explanation of
Mather’s inexorable pursuit of Rebecca Nourse?

To relieve the tedium of an existence deprived of innocent amusements,
the Goodwin children renewed their deceptions, and Cotton Mather, “to
relieve the distress of the afflicted John Goodwin, took Martha to his
house to live.” Now it was that the cunning mischief-maker befooled
Cotton Mather to the top of his bent. Page after page of the ponderous
_Magnalia_ is occupied with a grave recital of the pranks played by this
child in the minister’s house. “She screamed with pain, and cried that
Glover’s chains were about her leg.... To prevent the escape of the
prisoner’s spirit, to afflict the child, they put other chains on
Glover.... They chained the Papist till she could not move and she did
spew blood.”

Martha would not allow the spirit to be confined. She said Goody Glover
brought her a horse to ride, and her pastor tells us “she would make all
the motions of a person who rides, about the room and up the stairs,
like one astraddle of a horse.”

Imagine the impish glee of the child at seeing the most important person
in the Colony following her about in her horseplay, with looks of awe!
Her terrible precocity taught her to play on his hatred of Mrs. Glover’s
creed. “While possessed of the devil and Mrs. Glover,” he says, “she
could read Popish books, but not books against Popery.” In the pastor’s
study “she would become calm, and no longer afflicted. This was
witnessed by divers persons, and many times.” When asked why she was not
afflicted in the pastor’s study, the child replied, with a thorough
reading of Mather’s greatest weakness—his vanity, “Your study is too
holy a place for the devil or Glover to enter.”

The trial of Mrs. Glover was a farce. Pounded with questions on all
sides, the poor woman was only able to answer her tormentors in Irish.
“This she was instigated to do by the devil,” says Cotton Mather. There
be no doubt that, owing to her great age, her sufferings in prison, the
confusion of the court, which was added to by the screams of pretended
pain from the Goodwin children, Mrs. Glover was temporarily deprived of
English, “for which she never had a great facility.” One question,
however, she did give answer to in English. They asked her if it was
true that she was a Papist, “and showed to her an idol which was secret
in her house. She snatched at it with a joy that was diabolical, and
said: ‘I die a Catholic!’” Considering the material of which it was
composed, it is no wonder that the jury, after this declaration of
Faith, found her guilty.

The magistrates visited her in prison that night, “and they found her
agreeable to their questions.” They asked her what would become of her
soul after she was hanged. The simple and much-tried woman had the
humility Cotton Mather lacked. “You ask me a very solemn question, and I
can not tell what to say to it. I trust in God,” she replied. Cotton
Mather also visited her in prison.... He asked her to say the Lord’s
Prayer; for the common belief was that this could not be done by a
Catholic or a witch. “She recited the _Pater Noster_ to me in Latin,” he
says, “and in Irish, and in English, but she could not end it.” Of
course she could not end it in Cotton Mather’s way.

She caused Mather to wonder that she repeated in a voice “marvellous
strong” the petition, “deliver us from evil.” He considers this to be a
sign that she “reproached the devil for deserting her to be hung.” Poor,
befogged man, whose conceit would not permit him to see that it was he
himself she petitioned to be delivered from; for he argued with her to
destroy her Faith. She refused Mather’s spiritual ministrations, and he
feels assured that her “Catholic spirits” will not permit her to accept
them, and he predicts to her, her speedy and eternal damnation.

The proffering of these several consolations increased Mather’s habitual
satisfaction with himself, and he says: “Comforted at having performed a
solemn duty” [the consigning of a soul to perdition], “I returned to my
house.” Arrived there, he found the “Maid Martha galloping about the
room on the horse, her feet not touching the ground, which was a great
wonder.”

Mrs. Glover was hanged on the following day. “There was a great
concourse of people to see if the Papist would relent.... Her one cat
was there, fearsome to see. They would to destroy the cat, but Mr. Calef
would not [permit the cat to be killed]. Before her execution she was
bold and impudent [!] making to forgive her accusers and those who put
her off.... She predicted that her death would not relieve the children,
saying it was not she afflicted them.” This was construed into a threat;
and the children continued their sport, till, “a very strict fast being
held, they were completely restored.” After recounting the details of
this “joyful restoration,” Cotton Mather becomes more than usually
prolix in a relation of the _piety_ of his protegés.

It is not denied that before and after the execution of Ann Glover there
was a vast number of arrests and executions of reputed witches and
wizards in New England, beginning in 1647, under John Winthrop, and
culminating in the Salem massacre of 1692. It is not denied that neither
age, sex, nor condition was spared. Some were children—one but four
years old,—others of eighty and beyond; one was a minister; many were
the most reputable people in the Massachusetts Colony.

What is asserted is that Ann Glover was put to death not so much because
she was reputed a witch, as for the certainty that she was a Catholic.
All we know of her is in the words of her enemies and executioners,
except what is found in the scant record of Robert Calef, who exposed
himself to utter ruin by his defence of her. The little we know,
however, confirms the truth of my assertion.

It was only when all attempts to move Mrs. Glover’s “obstinate Papacy”
had failed, that she was first accused of witchcraft in 1682. That the
Goodwins were in the league “to bring her out of the burning”—that is,
to induce her to forswear the Faith—may be inferred with safety from
what took place in 1687. When her daughter was accused of theft by
Martha Goodwin, she does not say, “You may have us whipped, but we are
innocent of stealing”: this she had asserted before. She cries out: “You
may have us whipped, but we won’t go to the sermons.” Does not this
outburst unfold a tale of antecedent persecution suffered for religion’s
sake?

A fast “had greatly relieved the Goodwin children”; the tempest they had
aroused was lulled, and what happened? “The magistrates, long annoyed by
the presence of an obstinate Papist in Boston, ordered Goody Glover to
be taken into custody,” says Drake. At her trial there was not even such
evidence to prove her a witch as would satisfy the gullible magistrates.
It was only when Goody Glover made the declaration that she would die a
Catholic that “the jury brought her guilty.”

It went hard with the magistrates and Cotton Mather that a poor old
Catholic, a “scandalous Irishwoman,” withstood the doctrine of the
self-reputed “saints”; and even now Goody Glover could have saved her
life had she “relented.” The magistrates went to her on her last night
alive, to beat down her opposition by questions of her soul. They
failed, and Cotton Mather took their place.

He was above the law in the cheerless Colony. When, in 1692, the jury
brought in poor Rebecca Nourse innocent of witchcraft, he had them sent
to reconsider the evidence: at his beck they found her guilty. Then the
governor, Sir William Phipps, pardoned her. In defiance of the pardon,
Cotton Mather had her hanged, and saw her die on Witches’ Hill at Salem;
and, “sitting on his black horse, he rebuked those who did bewail her;
for she was an excellent woman.”

In view of this exhibition of his arbitrary power, is it too much to say
that, had Goody Glover “relented,” in his vainglory over the conquest of
a broken-down old woman, Cotton Mather would have had her set free? But
the old Irishwoman conquered Cotton Mather. “She died a Catholic”; and,
imitating her Divine Master, she died forgiving her enemies,—all those
from whom she had suffered grievous wrong.




      CAPT. DANIEL NEILL, AN ARTILLERY OFFICER OF THE REVOLUTION.

                      BY GEN. J. MADISON DRAKE[5].


It has never been generally known that the first cannon shot at the
enemy, after the adoption of the Declaration of Independence by
Congress, at Philadelphia, on the evening of July 4, 1776, was fired in
Elizabeth, N. J., then known as Elizabethtown, and as the present time
seems opportune for the revivication of local incidents in the war for
independence, I will narrate an exciting episode to awaken additional
interest.

Up to February, 1776, the state of New Jersey, or province as it then
was, had no artillery organization, and the importance of that arm of
the service being acutely felt, the Provincial Congress, in session at
Burlington, on the 13th of that month, adopted the following resolution:

  _Resolved_, That two complete artillery companies be raised in this
  colony.

The ordinance provided that the term of enlistment should be for one
year, and that one company should be stationed in the eastern part of
the province, the other in the western. Each company was to consist of a
captain, one captain-lieutenant, two second lieutenants, four sergeants,
four corporals, and one hundred and fifty matrosses. (The last term was
at that time used to denote gunners’ mates, or soldiers in a train of
artillery, who assisted in loading, firing and sponging the guns.) The
day following the passage of the ordinance the first or eastern company
was organized in Newark by the election of the following officers:

Captain—Frederick Frelinghuysen.

Captain-Lieutenant—Daniel Neill.

Second Lieutenants—Thomas Clark and James Heard.

Captain Frelinghuysen served but one month and resigned—Lieutenant Neill
succeeding him.

Shepard Kollock, born in Delaware in 1750, after learning the “art
preservative of all arts” in Philadelphia, came to Elizabethtown after
the war had commenced, and joined Captain Neill’s battery. He was with
it when it attacked and destroyed a British gunboat off this city, and
by his distinguished gallantry on that occasion was promoted to the
first lieutenancy.

At the close of the campaign in 1778, General Knox, commanding the
American artillery, advised Lieutenant Kollock to establish a newspaper
in Elizabethtown, as he would thereby be able to render great service to
the patriot cause. Lieutenant Kollock liked a soldier’s life, and did
not want to leave the army, but General Knox finally prevailed upon him
to engage in the newspaper enterprise, so he resigned, and securing a
rude outfit located in Chatham, a much safer place than Elizabeth was at
that period, and for some years afterwards Lieutenant Kollock continued
the publication of the New Jersey _Journal and Political Intelligencer_
at Chatham, until peace was declared, when he removed his plant to
Elizabeth, where it has since remained.

Captain Neill, a young man born in Ireland, by untiring energy and
devotion to duty, quickly got his command in good trim for the active
service it was soon to engage in. In the latter part of June Captain
Neill, who had been stationed in Newark, N. J., being ordered to
Elizabeth, took possession of the earthworks at what is now the foot of
Elizabeth Avenue, where he made a comfortable camp. To relieve his men
from ennui when not engaged in drilling, Captain Neill caused them to
throw up more earth, thus adding to the strength of the redoubt. He
placed his four guns so they would command the sound, narrow at that
point, as well as the entrance to the Elizabeth River, then known as
“Mill Creek.”

William Livingston, a resident of Elizabeth, who resigned his seat in
the Provincial Congress at Burlington, to be made commander-in-chief of
the New Jersey militia, overjoyed at the presence of Captain Neill’s
battery, on the morning of July 4, 1776, wrote General Washington as
follows:

  ... We now have two field pieces, 18 pounders, with a part of
  Captain Neill’s company of artillery in this province.

Shortly after the mounted courier had set out with the dispatch for
Washington’s headquarters in New York, American piquets posted on the
ground now occupied by the buildings of the Singer Company, were
surprised to see a large British gunboat lying off the southern end of
Shooters’ Island. They at once sent word to General Livingston, whose
home on Morris Avenue is now occupied by the family of Senator Kean.

Early in the evening General Livingston mounted his horse, ever saddled,
and rode to the lower part of the town, where he had a conference with
Captain Neill, who had already taken steps to repel an attack, in case
the vessel meditated mischief.

The sudden appearance of the gunboat in our waters was a great surprise
to our soldiers, as no British vessel had been hereabouts since
Washington occupied New York City and Long Island. The gunboat was a
part of Admiral Lord Howe’s fleet, just arrived from England, and that
day anchored off Cliffton, Staten Island. The British army at once
landed on the eastern shore of the island, gladly welcomed by the
supporters of British oppression.

Along towards the middle of the night the gunboat was seen coming slowly
through the Achter Koll, opposite the Singer factory. In the soft
moonlit night the craft was plainly distinguishable to our argus-eyed
soldiers keeping watch and ward along the shore. As any effort they
could make against the ship with their smooth-bore muskets would be
innocent, they maintained a painful silence, feeling assured that when
it reached the battery our guns would give a good account of themselves.

The commander of the vessel, in blissful ignorance of the possession of
artillery by the Americans, sailed unconcernedly and tranquilly over the
placid waters. Like most British officers at that period of the war, he
had profound contempt for American militiamen, whom he did not consider
foemen worthy of his steel.

Captain Neill, who had been on the _qui vive_ for some time, on learning
of the vessel’s approach, impatiently awaited a closer proximity in
order that his shots might be fully effective and his welcome to the
stranger more hearty, if less hospitable. His guns, ready shotted, were
admirably posted close to the water, and matches already lighted by the
fire-workers.

It was only when the vessel, but slowly making its way through the
silver-rippled water, owing to the lightness of the breeze, reached a
point directly opposite the redoubt occupied by Captain Neill, that his
dogs of war were loosened, and from their brazen throats belched forth
sheets of bright red flame, preceded by iron missiles, which swept the
deck of the craft, carrying death, destruction and dismay to the
hitherto confident and unsuspecting crew.

The salvo, like a clap of thunder from a serene sky, awoke echoes, which
were followed by a rain of merciless iron, utterly demoralizing the
officers and crew, and creating scenes of indescribable confusion and
terror. A state of chaos ensued; discipline was thrown to the winds—it
was every man for himself. The distracted sailors, finding themselves in
a trap and seeing no way of escape save by surrender, deserted the
vessel by jumping overboard, at least those who had not been killed or
maimed by the well-directed fire of our artillerymen.

Those who thus sought safety by springing into the water, endeavored to
reach either shore; most of them, however, struck out for the Jersey
side on account of its nearness. Some succeeded in gaining the Staten
Island shore, but many failed to reach either.

Meanwhile the gunboat, totally disabled, drifted with the outgoing tide,
no attempt being made by any one on board to work any of the fourteen
guns with which she was armed.

When Captain Neill, true-hearted soldier that he was, saw the desperate
helplessness of the British sailors, and their attempts to save
themselves, he ceased firing and sent men to rescue them from watery
graves. The gunboat was carried by the tide beyond the mouth of the
Elizabeth River, and, being in flames, went down to Davy Jones’
capacious locker just after passing the spot now occupied by the Dry
Dock Company.

Some thirty years ago, oystermen raked up a large number of British
coins and many other articles from this spot, and many believed the
treasure was at one time possessed by the sailors of the ill-fated
gunboat.

General Livingston, who had remained with Captain Neill and witnessed
the attack and destruction of the vessel, at once wrote the following
dispatch to General Washington, sending it off post-haste:

                                         ELIZABETHTOWN, July 4, 1776.
                                                             Midnight.

  One of the enemy’s sloops of war, mounting fourteen guns, having
  this evening run up to this point, was attacked from the shore by
  the twelve-pounders, a great number of her men killed, she set on
  fire and entirely destroyed.

As Captain Neill’s attack on the British gunboat occurred about
midnight, July 4, 1776, there can be no shadow of doubt that his guns
were the first ones fired after the immortal Declaration of Independence
was adopted, the Congress in session at Philadelphia having formally
performed this act between nine and ten o’clock that evening. It was the
first exploit of the new-born nation, and a gallant young Irish patriot,
a citizen of this province, carried it to success.

Captain Neill and his battery was shortly after assigned to Col. Thomas
Proctor’s[6] regiment of artillery, and subsequently to the brigade of
artillery commanded by General Knox.[7] The battery participated in the
battles of Trenton, Assinpink Creek, Princeton and Monmouth.

But it was at Princeton that the heroic Neill sealed his devotion to the
cause of American liberty and independence with his life’s blood. He was
instantly killed by a British sharpshooter just after Hugh Mercer, a
Scotsman, was mortally wounded.

In view of the important services rendered by this patriotic son of the
Emerald Isle to the cause of American freedom, it would seem especially
fitting at this time that a proper recognition of Captain Neill’s
devotion to the interests of this community in a dark hour of its
history should be made by our citizens.

Daniel Neill nobly gave all he possessed for the benefit and enrichment
of posterity, and it behooves us to recognize the value of his splendid
services in our behalf by erecting a suitable monument, marking the spot
in our town where he struck a deadly and brilliant blow at the ruthless
enemies of our blessed land.

Shall it be done?




            RICHARD DEXTER, ONE OF BOSTON’S IRISH PIONEERS.


                       BY THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY.

Richard Dexter was admitted a “townsman” of Boston, Mass., in 1641. He
was an Irishman and came to this country with his wife Bridget. Less
worthy people have been adequately chronicled. Of Richard Dexter,
however, but little has been said. He may be ranked as a forgotten
pioneer.

In the New York _Genealogical and Biographical Record_, January, 1891,
is a brief paper on “The Dexter Family.” In that it is stated that
“Richard Dexter, the pioneer, with his wife, Bridget, came from Ireland,
where his fathers had lived for upwards of 400 years.”

The descendants of Richard and Bridget have been very numerous, many of
them attaining prominence in civil, military and educational life. F.
Gordon Dexter, a wealthy Boston man, is mentioned as one of these
descendants, as is also the late George Dexter of Albany, N. Y. Mention
of others will hereinafter be found.

In Vol. III, page 181, of a work published by Munsell on _American
Ancestry_ (Albany, N. Y., 1899), it is stated that John Dexter, the only
son of Richard, the immigrant, was born in 1639 and probably in Ireland.
He was doubtless brought to this country by his parents while still an
infant.

The Irish Dexters derive their descent from Anglo-Norman sources and are
first heard of in Ireland about A. D. 1169, or more than seven centuries
ago. The name has variously appeared in Ireland as De Exeter, D’Exeter,
Dexeter, Dexetra, Dexter, etc.

Some of the family, especially those settling in Mayo, in the kingdom of
Connaught, assumed the surname Mac Jordan (descendant of Jordan), after
an ancestor—Jordan Teutonicus, or Jordan De Courcy, a brother of John De
Courcy, Earl of Ulster. These Dexters were commonly known as Dexter-Mac
Jordans, and sometimes as Mac Jordan-Dexters. Much of the history of the
Dexters must be sought under the names Jordan and Mac Jordan.

The pioneer Dexters in Ireland soon fell in with the people and though,
at first, conflicts ensued between them and the old native clans, their
descendants eventually became “as Irish as the Irish themselves.” The
fact that they were of the same religious faith greatly assisted, of
course, in bringing this about.

Richard Dexter, son of Stephen Dexter, wedded, in 1272, Lady Penelope
O’Connor, a daughter of the ruler of the Irish kingdom of Connaught. The
Dexter-Mac Jordans became lords of Athleathan, in Mayo, Connaught, and
built one of their strongest castles there. Stephen Dexter, son of one
of the lords of Athleathan, was a Dominican monk, and wrote the _Annals
of Multifernan_.

The Dexter-Mac Jordans also had possessions in the Irish principality of
Meath, where they built Castle Jordan. About 1274 they founded an abbey
in Mayo. In De Burgo’s time the Dexter family had reached its thirteenth
generation in Ireland.

In common with other great Irish families, the Dexters suffered much at
the hands of the English enemy, a large part of their choicest property
being seized and confiscated. While some of the Irish Dexters took the
name Mac Jordan, others, it would appear, did not, for we find Dexters
prominently mentioned in the Munster counties of Cork and Limerick.

It is a well-known fact that at one time the Irish living within the
pale were obliged by law to drop their Irish surnames and assume others.
Possibly, some of the Dexters bearing the name Mac Jordan came under the
operation of this enactment and went back to their original name of
Dexter. Be that as it may, it is certain that several of the Irish
Dexters of Munster were unscrupulously victimized during the Cromwellian
and Williamite regimes.

Thomas Dexter of Cloyne, Cork, was among the forfeiting proprietors
under the Cromwellian settlement. He was of the Barony of Imokilly.
Stephen Dexter of the Parish of Templemurry, County Limerick, also
suffered at the same time and in like manner. William Dexter, likewise
of Templemurry, was similarly treated by the rapacious foe.

What part of Ireland Richard Dexter, the Boston pioneer, came from we do
not know. It is reasonable to conclude, however, that he was from either
Munster or Connaught—the south or the west, since it is in these two
provinces the Irish Dexters are mainly found. Neither do we know the
maiden name of his wife, Bridget. Richard Dexter was admitted a townsman
of Boston on “the 28th day of the twelfth month, 1641.” At the meeting
where this action was taken there were present: Richard Bellingham, John
Winthrop, William Tynge, Captain Gibbones, Valentine Hill, Jacob Eliot,
James Penn and John Oliver.

According to Savage’s _Genealogical Dictionary_, Richard Dexter, the
pioneer, was of Charlestown, Mass., in 1644. Munsell’s _American
Ancestry_ states that he was born in 1606, which would make him about
thirty-five years of age on his arrival in Boston from Ireland. He
bought a large amount of land on “Mystic side,” and must, at the outset,
have been a man of considerable means. In 1648 his name appears signed
to a petition relative to the laying out of a highway in Charlestown,
Mass. The petition thus quaintly concludes: “So shall wee be bound to
pray as we desire dayly to doe for yr prsptie & peace temporall &
Eternall.”

On “the 14th of the third month, 1650,” Richard Dexter purchased of
Robert Long of Charlestown five lots on “Mystic side.” In 1654 John
Palmer mentions the sale to Dexter of five acres of “arable land” in
Charlestown, which land had at one time belonged to Maj. Robert
Sedgwick. Richard Dexter also purchased other pieces of land, chiefly
upland, in Charlestown at various times. In 1663 he became owner of
forty acres in Malden, Mass., buying the same of Edward Lane of Boston.
This latter property was increased from time to time, and much of it
remained in possession of descendants of Richard down to as late a
period as 1854.

In 1651, Richard’s wife, Bridget Dexter, signed a petition of Malden and
Charlestown women. This was called “The petition of Many Inhabitants of
Malden and Charlestown on Mestickside.” A record is extant showing that
“Thomas Molton of Malden, Planter,” sold to Richard Dexter five acres of
upland. “It is scituate on mistik syde nere the south springe.” Richard
Dexter, the pioneer, died at Charlestown in 1680.

John Dexter, the only son of Richard, was born in 1639. He is spoken of
as “of Charlestown and Malden.” He was killed in the latter place in
1677. His wife’s name was Sarah. They had several children, including a
son, who was named Richard. This Richard is mentioned as “of Lynn and
Malden.” He was born in the latter place in 1676, and died there in
1747. John Dexter of the family was a selectman of Malden for many
years, and in 1717 was commissioned captain of a company of Foot by
Governor Shute. This John Dexter died in 1722. He had eight children.

Another John Dexter of Malden, of the same family, was born in 1705 and
died in 1790. He had thirteen children, was clerk of the town for
several years, a patriot of the Revolution and delegate to the
Provincial Congress.

The Rev. Samuel Dexter was born in 1700, dying in 1755. He was a brother
of Selectman John of Malden. This Samuel graduated at Harvard College,
1720, and subsequently taught school at Taunton, Lynn, Malden, and
elsewhere in Massachusetts. He eventually located in Dedham, Mass. He
had a son, also named Samuel, who became an eminent merchant of Boston,
and died in 1810.

This second Samuel left a bequest to Harvard University, on which
bequest was subsequently founded the Dexter lectureship. He became a
member of the Council of Massachusetts. He was “an active and sagacious
leader on the popular side, and a man of marked ability.”

Another member of this distinguished family was Richard Dexter, a
physician at Topsfield, Mass. He was born in 1713 and died in 1783. This
Richard was a brother of the Rev. Samuel Dexter, and wedded Mehitable
Putnam, a sister of Gen. Israel Putnam.

Two members of the Dexter family, William and Richard, descendants of
Richard, the Irishman, were members of a Malden company of Minutemen
that marched to Watertown, Mass., April 19, 1775, in response to the
Lexington alarm. John Dexter, probably the one just mentioned, was with
Captain Blaney in the Point Shirley expedition, 1776, and later was
lieutenant aboard the brigantine _Hawke_. William Dexter of Malden, who
responded to the Lexington alarm was with Colonel Brooks’ regiment of
guards at Cambridge from February to April, 1778. Thus we see these
descendants of the immigrant Richard were as ready to oppose British
tyranny as their Irish ancestors had been.

Another member of the family, Aaron Dexter, was born in 1750 and
graduated at Harvard in 1776. He witnessed the battle of Bunker Hill
from the Malden side of the river; studied medicine and made several
voyages as surgeon. He was captured by the British and taken into
Halifax, but was subsequently exchanged. Thomas Dexter is heard from at
Lynn, as early as 1630. He at one time owned 800 acres in that vicinity.
Whether he was related to Thomas Dexter of Cloyne, Cork, to Stephen or
William Dexter of Limerick, or to Richard Dexter, the Boston pioneer, is
not known.




                       THE NEW HAMPSHIRE KELLYS.


                        BY HON. JOHN C. LINEHAN.

Who was the first among New Hampshire’s early settlers to bear the
ancient west-of-Ireland name Kelly, is now hard to determine. Probably
it was either Roger Kelly, who, with his two brothers John and William,
were on the Isles of Shoals shortly after their settlement by the
English, or one of the descendants of John Kelly, who came to Newbury,
Mass., in 1635.

The exact year when Roger Kelly and his two brothers came to the Shoals
is not given in Jenness’ history of the island, but it must have been
about the date mentioned. It is written of them that “they were men of
energy and substance.” All three lived on Smutty Nose Island. From the
records Roger seems to have been the most prominent. A conveyance of
land and buildings at the Shoals to him from Nathaniel Fryer is entered
in the Province records.

Therein he is styled the fisherman. For this reason it would not be
surprising to learn that he came from Galway, Ireland’s greatest fishing
mart from the earliest times. Elsewhere in the same work he is alluded
to as “Roger Kelly, the ancient magistrate and _taverner_.” A queer
combination of titles from a modern standpoint, and no doubt the
occasion for the underscoring of the word taverner.

The people on the Shoals in those early days led a free and easy life.
Neither women nor hogs, it is said, were allowed there,—not even married
women. The swine ate or spoiled the fish, and the presence of women for
obvious reasons caused trouble between the men.

These hardy fishermen, whose manly virtues, despite their human
failings, find a staunch advocate in Jenness, “were not very deeply
moved by questions of government, or statutes, or courts.” A
considerable proportion of criminal complaints against them were for
resisting, assaulting, and reviling the officers of the law, and
treating with contempt the awe-inspiring badge of his office.

However, this feeling of contempt for the minions of the law was not
confined to the inhabitants of the rocky isles, for it is on record that
Maj. William Vaughan of Portsmouth, N. H., seized the truncheon of the
king’s officer who was on the point of serving a writ upon him, and beat
him over the head with it. And as well, that Andrew Wiggin of Stratham,
N. H., threw Lieut.-Gov. Walter Barefoote on the blazing coals in his
own fireplace, and, in addition, sat on him, breaking some of his ribs,
knocking out some of his teeth, and partially roasting his body.

So, for a similar reason, on the Shoals, Abraham Kelly and others were
arrested for reviling a constable and attempting to assault him, and
even Roger himself, the ancient magistrate and taverner, “was presented
in Court for selling without due license to a party of fishermen, while
playing nine-pins on Hog Island, twelve gallons of wine which they drank
in one day.” An appetite for liquids like this in our day, and with our
population, would surely create a famine in that line.

Still, strange as it may seem now, in those good old times, and for a
century later, the great man of the town, as a rule, was the
tavern-keeper, and Roger was not an exception. His name headed many
weighty petitions in favor of, or protesting against, every measure
respectively beneficial or injurious to his fellow-citizens of the rocky
island. That he was an educated man is apparent from the positions he
held, as well as the location of his name at the head of other signers
on petitions.

In 1689 he was one of many petitioners to the Massachusetts General
Court for the appointment of a suitable person to command the militia.

This fact is on record in the Provincial papers, and Jenness wrote that
in 1690, during the King William War, the Massachusetts authorities
appointed Roger Kelly “Captain of the Isles.” A company of militia under
command of Captain Wiley was sent to the Shoals from Massachusetts, and
this was the occasion of some trouble. The fishermen were opposed, it is
said, to all manner of government rates and taxes unless the moneys
received therefrom were expended on the Shoals. They, therefore,
resented the billetting of the soldiers on them and even refused to pay
for their subsistence, and Roger Kelly was the leader of the
protestants.

There is a record in the Provincial papers of payment to Roger for
services as a soldier. The date of the death of Roger Kelly cannot be
given here, neither can his descendants be traced without trouble; but
undoubtedly they, as well as those of his brothers, are scattered all
over the United States, for as Kelly, or Kelley, the name is now one of
the most common among Americans. Clarke has immortalized the name in his
poem, “The Fighting Race,” and it is well to remark here that “Kelly and
Burke and Shea” were here in New Hampshire long before 1700 in the
persons of Roger Kelly, James O’Shea and John Burke, whose names appear
in the Provincial records.

According to Coffin, the historian of Newbury, Mass., John Kelly of that
town was of English as well as of Irish descent. His father, as
tradition has it, was an Irishman who went from his native country to
Newbury, England. While in the service of a gentleman there he was
successful in defending the house from an attack by robbers. He secured
the gentleman’s daughter for his wife. The immigrant, John Kelly, was
the offspring of this union. He came to Newbury in 1635.

In the allotment of land to settlers he was dissatisfied with his
assignment and selected his land so far away from the rest that the
people of the town were fearful that he would be destroyed either by the
Indians or by wild beasts, and in consequence the town voted “that if
the said John Kelly or any of his family are killed by the Indians or
wild beasts their blood” should be on their own heads.

However, this did not trouble John Kelly. In time, he was looked upon as
one of the most enterprising and courageous men in the settlement, and
fearless to an extreme degree. He had five sons and five daughters. His
descendants are numerous in New England, and especially in New
Hampshire. They were thrifty, prosperous and leading citizens in the
towns in which they settled.

Before the Revolution, not a few schoolmasters, natives of Ireland, were
teaching the young ideas how to shoot in New Hampshire. They were well
thought of in those days, and spoken of, as a rule, in the highest terms
by the people with whom they came in contact.

Such men as John Sullivan, father of the general, in Dover; Edward Evans
of Northfield, who was General Sullivan’s secretary, and adjutant of one
of the three Continental regiments; Henry Parkinson, whose grave is in
Canterbury Center cemetery; Edward Donovan of Sandwich; William Donovan
of Weare; Patrick Quinlan of Concord; Richard Dowling of Stratham; Darby
Kelly of Exeter and Hercules Mooney of Somersworth, were some of these
schoolmasters.

Few of New Hampshire’s early settlers have left more useful descendants
than Darby Kelly, whose name appears in the Province wills in 1728. The
exact time of his arrival, or the section of Ireland from which he came,
is unknown. Kelly is one of the most ancient names in Connaught, the
western province of Ireland. It is an Anglicization of the Gaelic
Ceallaigh. It would not, therefore, be surprising if he emigrated from
that part of the country. In the _Reminiscences of New Hampton_, which
were written by one of his descendants, the Hon. F. H. Kelly, ex-mayor
of Worcester, Mass., it is stated that he settled in Exeter, N. H., in
the early part of the 18th century, and that little is known of him
except by tradition. He was reputed to have taught school before leaving
home, and “is said to have been a bright, quick-witted Irishman.”

Contrary to rule, this much was said of him by the writer quoted, who
had not followed the usual course in calling his ancestor a
“Scotch-Irishman.” However that may have been, the record shows that he
was a useful, thrifty citizen, possessed of the traits which
distinguished so many of his descendants. There is another tradition
that he taught school in New Hampshire. If so, the inscription, in part,
on the headstone of Capt. Henry Parkinson, Stark’s quartermaster, who
died in 1829, would also apply to Darby Kelly. “Hibernia begot me.
Columbia nurtured me, ... I have fought, I have taught, and I have
labored with my hands,” etc. For if Darby had taught, which is likely,
he had also labored with his hands, and fought as well.

The Provincial papers show that when his services as a soldier were
required, he shouldered his musket and fought against the common foe,
the French and the Indians; so in this way we find his name enrolled as
one of the company commanded by Capt. Moses Foster, on scouting duty in
1748; again, serving in Capt. Elijah Sweet’s company, Col. Peter
Gilman’s regiment, in New York, 1755; again, in Capt. Elisha Winslow’s
company, Col. Nathaniel Meserve’s regiment, in the Crown Point
expedition, 1756; and as Sergt. Darby Kelly he is found again in Capt.
Richard Emery’s company, Col. Nathaniel Meserve’s regiment, in the
second Crown Point expedition, 1757. One battalion of this regiment
suffered severely in the massacre at Fort William Henry. Out of 200 men
engaged 80 were killed or captured. His final enlistment was in Capt.
Somerbee Gilman’s company, of Col. John Hart’s regiment, in 1758. Here
is a military record his descendants may well point to with pride, for
it enables them to gain admission to all the patriotic Colonial War
societies thus far organized.

That he was an active business man is clearly evident, for there are on
the records, especially in the Province wills in the New Hampshire State
House, entries of deeds of land to or from him from Dec. 11, 1728, to
March 31, 1770,—one in Exeter, four in Kingston, and ten in Brentwood.
His name appears on a petition from Exeter for parish privileges in
1741, and on another from Brentwood in 1742, and he is recorded as a
ratepayer in that town. His name is signed to a receipt for 100 pounds,
old tenor, paid to him in 1769 for services as a soldier.

He married Sarah, the daughter of Philip Huntoon of Kingston, N. H. The
date and year of his marriage cannot be given here, but it was before
1729. That he had won the good will and the esteem of his wife’s father
is clear from the inspection of a deed of land conveyed to him and to
his wife, dated July 25, 1729, and recorded in the Province deeds, Vol.
19. It reads in part, stripped of the phraseology of the times, as
follows:

“To all people to whom these presents shall come, greeting: Know ye that
I, Philip Huntoon, Sr., of the town of Kingstown, in the Province of New
Hampshire, in New England, husbandman, Know ye that I, the aforesaid
Philip Huntoon, for and in consideration of the natural love and
affection which I have and do bear toward and to my beloved daughter and
son-in-law, Sarah Kelly and Darby Kelly, of ye said town of Kingstown,
county and province aforesaid, and for other good causes and
considerations, have given, granted made over and confirmed,” etc.

This is a loving tribute to a son-in-law. It would be of interest to
know, were it possible, how he stood with his mother-in-law, but on this
point the records are dumb. As a rule, the women were silent in those
days. From the language of this deed it is to be taken for granted that
he and his wife were residents of the town at the time the deed was
made. In the sketch of the family printed in the _Reminiscences of New
Hampton_, it is said that Samuel Kelly, the oldest son of Darby, was
born in Exeter in 1733, and died in New Hampton, N. H., on June 28,
1813, aged 80 years. We will now leave Darby to his well-merited rest,
and look up the records of some of his descendants.

Samuel Kelly mentioned, married Elizabeth Bowdoin. Here, then, we find a
union of three nationalities thus early in the history of the province.
Kelly, Huntoon and Bowdoin, respectively, Irish, English and French,—not
a bad combination, for each of the three peoples represented have cut
quite a figure in the world’s history for the past three centuries. Mrs.
Kelly was born in 1740, and died in 1816, outliving her husband three
years. Both were buried in the family lot on Kelly Hill, New Hampton.

The family went from Brentwood, N. H., to New Hampton in 1775. Samuel
Kelly was a carpenter by trade, and at this time was 42 years old. He is
credited with being a man of courage, ability and energy, and at the end
of a few years found himself in possession of a considerable part of
what is now New Hampton, and this was entirely due to his great
perseverance and hard work, aided largely by an iron constitution. He
had nine children, six of whom were sons. It is said that his aim was to
provide a farm for each. One of his daughters, Sally, died in Machias,
Me., in 1840. Another who was married, as the first-named was, moved to
Steubenville, O., Two of his sons, John and Dudley, removed to
Youngstown, Pa.

Samuel Kelly planned and built the first meeting-house in town. He was a
worthy son of Darby Kelly and Sarah Huntoon. He can well be credited as
the leading pioneer settler of New Hampton. That his venerable father
accompanied him to New Hampton in 1775 is evident from a letter written
by Elder Ebenezer Fisk of Jackson, Mich., printed in the _Reminiscences_
mentioned. For, in describing the location of the several families in
the town, he wrote, “Next was Darby Kelly whose honored wife died at the
advanced age of 103 years.”

Samuel Kelly, son of Samuel, and grandson of Darby Kelly, was born in
Brentwood in 1759, and died in New Hampton in 1832. His widow survived
him 14 years, dying in 1846, aged 84. He had seven children, four of
whom were sons. Of these sons, Michael B. and Jonathan F. Kelly
inherited the farm settled on and cleared by their grandfather, the
first Samuel Kelly. At the present time, and for a number of years past,
it has been owned by the Hon. Joseph H. Walker of Worcester, Mass., who
married Hannah M. C. Kelly, youngest child of Michael B. Kelly, and the
sister of the late Capt. Warren M. Kelly of Hooksett, and the late Frank
H. Kelly, ex-mayor of Worcester.

A Samuel Kelly of New Hampton was on the roster of Col. Hercules
Mooney’s regiment in the battle of Rhode Island under Gen. John
Sullivan. Later, the name of Lieut. Samuel Kelly of New Hampton is on
the roster of the same regiment, and another Samuel Kelly of Meredith
was enrolled in a company raised for service at Ticonderoga in 1777.

These were undoubtedly descendants of Darby Kelly. Their residence in
one instance is given as at Meredith, and in two as of New Hampton. The
evidence for these facts will be found on the pages of the Revolutionary
rolls. It is possible that the Lieut. Samuel Kelly may either have been
the son or grandson of Darby.

Maj. Nathaniel Kelly, the third son of Samuel, second, and grandson of
Darby, moved to Akron, O., before 1835. His son, bearing the same name,
with his family followed later. No doubt they are the ancestors of many
western Kellys.

Col. William B. Kelly, the fourth son of Samuel, and grandson of Darby,
was born in Exeter in 1769. He came to New Hampshire with his father
when he was six years old. He had 11 children, of whom six were sons. He
was the first postmaster of New Hampton. The mails were distributed from
his house before 1800. He was a member of the state Legislature, and one
of the two founders of the New Hampton Academy, which was first opened
in 1822. It is written of him that “he inherited the military spirit of
his ancestors, and transmitted it to his posterity,” as will be seen by
the prominent part taken by some of them in the Civil War. His children
became widely separated, their descendants now dwelling in almost every
state in the Union.

Maj.-Gen. Benjamin F. Kelly, son of Col. William S. Kelly, and
great-grandson of Darby Kelly, was born in New Hampton in 1807. When a
young man he moved to West Virginia, and was residing there when the
first gun was fired on Sumter. It is claimed for him that he raised the
first Union regiment and won the first Union victory south of Mason and
Dixon’s line. He was commissioned colonel of his regiment on May 25,
1861. His first service was under General McClellan, in West Virginia,
and under his direction Colonel Kelly assumed command of all the troops
then in that part of the state. He won his first victory at Grafton,
where he defeated a Confederate force under command of Colonel
Porterfield. On this occasion, in addition to his own regiment, he had
command of the Sixteenth Ohio and the Ninth Indiana regiments. The enemy
was completely routed and large quantities of arms and ammunition fell
into Colonel Kelly’s hands. Kelly was badly wounded. At first it was
supposed mortally. For his conduct here he was congratulated by Generals
Morris and McClellan. Both complimented him for his brilliant and
efficient service. McClellan recommended him for promotion to the rank
of brigadier-general. The request was complied with. He was also
complimented for his valor and skill at Romney in October, 1861, by
President Lincoln, General Scott, and Gen. E. D. Townsend, the assistant
adjutant-general of the United States army. Thus were honors showered
unlimited on the head of the grandson of the modest colonial Crown Point
soldier, Darby Kelly, who was with Sir William Johnson at Fort William
Henry a little more than a century before.

Later, General Kelly was assigned to the command of the department at
Harper’s Ferry and Cumberland. On the organization of the Department of
West Virginia, in 1863, he was assigned to that command. His services
from the beginning to the end of the war are too well known to repeat
them here. During the invasion of Pennsylvania, in 1862, his conduct
brought to him the thanks of General Wright, and for his successful
defence of Cumberland, Md., in 1864, he received from the president the
rank of major-general by brevet, and from the people of Cumberland,
their heartfelt thanks for the skill and courage displayed by him and
his officers, and the bravery exhibited by his soldiers in their
successful resistance to the capture of the city. General Kelly had six
children, four of whom were sons, all of whom served in the United
States army.

Capt. Warren Michael Kelly was the son of Michael B. Kelly, the nephew
of Gen. B. F. Kelly, and the great-great-grandson of Darby Kelly. He was
born in New Hampton in 1821. He was residing in Manchester when the
Civil War broke out. In August, 1862, he raised a company which was
attached to the Tenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry,
commanded by the late Gen. Michael T. Donohoe. He remained in the
service until the close of the war. He was wounded once. His first fight
was at Fredericksburg, one of the bloodiest battles of the Civil War, on
Dec. 13, 1862. It is claimed for him that he commanded the first
organized body of white troops that entered Richmond, after the
surrender of Lee. Captain Kelly was as modest as he was brave. He was 41
years old when he went to the front with his regiment in 1862, but none
in his command rendered more efficient service during the three years
following.

There was no opportunity for promotion in his regiment, as there was no
change in the colonel or the lieutenant-colonel from 1862 to 1865,
neither of them being killed, neither did they resign, for both Gen. M.
T. Donohoe and General Coughlin were among the bravest of the brave.
Captain Kelly, as the ranking captain, had command of his regiment on
several occasions during the first quarter of 1865, and was in command
of the skirmish line when the Union troops entered Richmond on April 3d
of the same year. It is quite a coincidence, and worthy of mention, that
Captain Kelly should serve in a regiment whose field officers and a
large proportion of the rank and file were composed of men of the same
nationality as his great-great-grandfather, Darby Kelly.

Of the sons of Gen. B. F. Kelly, John G., the eldest, was colonel of the
Seventh Virginia Infantry. William B. was a captain on his father’s
staff. Frank was a quartermaster in the United States army and died in
Texas in 1870. Wright Kelly, a captain of cavalry, was wounded and died
from the effects of his wounds in 1869.

Hon. Frank H. Kelly was a brother of Capt. Warren M. Kelly. He was born
in New Hampton, Sept. 9, 1827. He was a physician, studying and
practising in various places until 1851, when he located in Worcester,
Mass. He followed his profession actively 32 years. He joined the
Massachusetts Medical Society in 1875. He was the first president of the
board of trustees of the City Hospital in 1870, serving in that capacity
13 years. As a member of the school board, of the common council, of the
board of aldermen, he served his adopted city long and faithfully.

He wrote the _Reminiscences of New Hampton_, from which a goodly portion
of this paper, or rather the material for it, has been culled. Therein
he styled his great-great-grandfather, Darby Kelly, “a bright,
quick-witted Irishman.” Here we will leave the emigrant Darby Kelly and
his American descendants. It is said that regardless of the number born
in New Hampton, none of the name resides there. They are scattered all
over the country, but wherever located, it will be found that they are
keeping up the record made by their New Hampshire fathers. The Kelly
blood runs in the veins of some of the best people within and without
the state of New Hampshire, and in at least one instance it returned
across the Atlantic by the marriage of one of Darby’s descendants to M.
Clemenceau, the celebrated Parisian writer and statesman. But few of
Darby’s descendants are here mentioned. They are too numerous. But
judging from the record of those given, the emigration of Darby to New
Hampshire was quite an accession to the people of the province and
state.

Referring again to John Kelly who came to Newbury, Mass., in 1635, many
of his descendants must have come to New Hampshire. Among them
undoubtedly was Abial Kelly of Methuen, Mass., originally, whose name
occurs several times in the Provincial papers in connection with the
settlement of the boundary line between New Hampshire and Massachusetts,
in 1745. It also occurs in the Province wills, 1728, 1740, and 1743.

Capt. Richard Kelly, another descendant of the Newbury immigrant, was an
officer in the Sixth Regiment of militia, in 1744. The same name appears
on a petition from Londonderry, N. H., for the release of Stephen
Holland, the Tory, in 1777. The names of Hugh Kelly and Peter Kelly are
on the same petition. Richard Kelly, Jr., evidently the son of Captain
Kelly, served in the company commanded by Captain Nesmith in Canada in
1776.

A Richard Kelly was a grantee and one of the first settlers of
Contoocook, now Boscawen, in 1748. As Boscawen’s first settlers were
from Newbury, Mass., it is reasonable to think he was also a descendant
of John Kelly. A Richard Kelly was at Winter Hill, near Boston, Mass.,
in 1775, in the company of Capt. Jacob Webster, which was one of the
companies raised at the request of General Sullivan to take the place of
Connecticut troops, during the siege of Boston, who had refused to serve
after their term had expired.

This interesting episode of New Hampshire history cannot be repeated too
often. On Dec. 1, 1775, Sullivan sent up word by express of the
defection of the Connecticut men, and made an urgent request for
volunteers to take their places. In response to this, 31 companies,
numbering 2,058 men, were enlisted for six weeks, and marched to Winter
Hill. New Hampshire had at this time, in addition, three full regiments
in the field, thus making the total number of New Hampshire men at the
siege of Boston in 1775 over five thousand. This is evidence of the
character of the men of the old Granite State in those stirring times.

Capt. Richard Kelly was authorized by Gov. Benning Wentworth to call the
first town meeting in Salem, N. H., in May, 1750.

William Kelly was a taxpayer in Newcastle, N. H., in 1727. Doubtless he
was a descendant of Roger or John Kelly mentioned.

A William Kelly appears on a petition in 1737. Another was one of the
company commanded by Captain Eastman on scouting duty in Penacook, now
Concord, N. H., in 1747.

Still another William Kelly served at Crown Point, in 1755, in Captain
Goff’s company, and another was one of the grantees in the town of
Salem, N. H., in 1750; a William Kelly was also on the alarm list of the
town of Warner, N. H., in 1741. William P. Kelly was in Northwood, and
another William Kelly in Salisbury, respectively, in 1735 and 1813.

A William Kelly was enrolled in Captain Page’s company, Senter’s
regiment, in 1777. Sergt. William Kelly was in Captain Libby’s company,
Col. Stephen Evans’ regiment, at Saratoga in 1777. Corp. William Kelly
served in the battle of Rhode Island in the regiment of Colonel Hercules
Mooney in 1779. He was from Epping, N. H.

Rev. William Kelly was the first settled minister in Warner, Feb. 6,
1772. He was born in Newbury, Mass., 1744, and was undoubtedly a
descendant of John Kelly who landed there a little over a century
before. His pastorate closed in 1801. He made the opening prayer at the
first town meeting held in Warner.

Hon. John Kelly was his son. He was born in Warner. He was an attorney,
editor and author. He was the first Warner man to take a degree from
Dartmouth. His permanent home was in Exeter, N. H. He was register of
probate for Rockingham County.

Abner B. Kelly was his brother. He was Warner’s town clerk in 1820. He
was representative to the state Legislature, postmaster of Warner for
six years, state treasurer of New Hampshire for six years, a clerk in
one of the departments at Washington, D. C., a director of the Concord
Mechanics Bank of Concord, and of the company incorporated for the
manufacture of silk. He is credited as being a fine penman. “His
handwriting was faultless.”

William Kelly, “an Irish tailor,” was in Barnstead, N. H., in 1814. The
historian of that town wrote that he was the first Irishman in
Barnstead. Regardless of that statement, however, Thomas, John and
Stephen Pendergast were among its first settlers. This name is not quite
as Irish as Murphy, but comes very near it. It came from France to
Ireland in 1170.

George W. Kelly, a brother of Rev. William Kelly, was deputy sheriff in
Warner in 1808. Caleb Kelly came to Warner from Newbury, the nursery of
the Kellys. Kelly Hill takes its name from him. His family removed to
Wisconsin. J. R. B. Kelly is recorded as a graduate of Francestown
Academy, and Frank H. Kelly was one of the directors of the Francestown
Soapstone Company.

Dudley Kelly was serving at West Point in 1789. He was from Brentwood.

Zachariah Kelly was also at West Point in 1781, and an entry in the
records reads, that he had received a ration of half a pint of rum and a
pound of sugar with the other members of his company.

Israel W. Kelly of Boscawen was a lieutenant in Captain Green’s company
in 1797, when there seemed to be a prospect of a war with France.

In December, 1776, James Kelly was paid for services in apprehending
Daniel Meserve and others for counterfeiting Provincial bills.

Another James Kelly appeared on a petition in 1732 for the laying out of
a new town along Lake Winnepesaukee. The names of John and James Kelly
appear on the roll of ratepayers in the parish of Cocheco in 1753.
Another James Kelly appears on a petition from Northwood in connection
with some town dispute. James Kelly served in Captain Drew’s company in
the expedition to Canada in 1776 and 1777, and a man of the same name
from Exeter enlisted for three years in the Fourth regiment of militia.

A James Kelly was one of the proprietors of Wakefield in 1749, and
another James Kelly was one of the grantees of Peterborough in 1750.
Still another of the same name was engaged in the defence of Piscataqua
Harbor in 1791. James Kelly was a British prisoner of war in 1781, who,
with others, was consigned for safe keeping to New Hampshire.

James Kelly was one of the soldiers who were indebted to the sutler for
supplies in 1761. This kind of a creditor was not infrequent in 1861, a
hundred years later. He served in Captain Gerrish’s company.

James Kelly was one of the grantees of Holderness, N. H., in 1751. Among
those who were with him were John Cavanaugh, John McElroy, William
Curry, Hercules Mooney, Bryan McSweeney and Michael Dwyer.

John Kelly was one of the selectmen of Dover, N. H., who aided in taking
the census in October, 1775. He served in the state Legislature four
years, and from the records seemed to have been an active,
public-spirited citizen. John Kelly was a ratepayer in Plaistow and
Atkinson in 1786.

A John Kelly in Salem appears on a petition for the formation of one or
more counties in 1769. Samuel Kelly was one of his associates. John
Kelly renders an account of individual losses which he met at
Ticonderoga. John Kelly of Dover, in 1782, furnished an affidavit in
relation to the identity of a soldier. John Kelly of Deerfield was a
recruit for the Continental army in 1780. John Kelly was one of the
selectmen of Salem in 1775.

John E. Kelly was one of Warner’s selectmen in 1801. John Kelly of North
Hampton was one of Captain Parsons’ company, Colonel Runnells’ regiment,
at Charleston, in 1781.

John Kelly of New York was granted 69,100 acres of land in Lamoiville,
Vt., in 1787. In 1791 he was given 30,000 acres more. In both cases the
grants were made by the legislature of Vermont. This John Kelly must
have been one of the “Royal Order of Patroons.” Kellyburg, Kellyvale,
and Kelly Grant marked his progress in the Green Mountain state. John
Kelly, a native of Plaistow, graduated from Amherst College in 1825. He
lived in Chester in 1833. The history of the town speaks of him in the
highest terms.

Ezekiel Kelly, a native of Newbury, Mass., was in Chester, N. H., in
1784. Col. Israel W. Kelly resided there in 1810, and Ephraim Kelly was
one of the selectmen in 1825.

Rev. John Kelly of Hampstead was of the sixth generation of John Kelly
of Newbury, Mass., who came over in 1635. He had five sons and seven
daughters. He died in Hampstead in 1848. Three of his sons were college
graduates. He wrote a history of Hampstead. He was pastor of the church
in that town from 1792 to his death in 1848, fifty-six years.

The ways of the Kellys were not always smooth, for Brewster’s _Rambles
Around Portsmouth_ says, that in July, 1686, John Kelly and his family
were ordered to give security or leave town, a survival of the custom in
vogue in Boston and probably introduced to New Hampshire when the
Province came under the control of Massachusetts Bay.

John Kelly was a Revolutionary soldier and died in Raymond. A John Kelly
was one of Windham’s first settlers, and a type of the late historian
Morrison’s so-called “pure-blooded Scotch Irishman.”

John Kelly was a member of the governor’s council in 1846. John Kelly
was register of probate for Hillsborough County, N. H., 1831 to 1837.
John Kelly was register of deeds in Rockingham County from 1832 to 1837.

Joseph Kelly was one of the selectmen of Sunbudy in 1757. Joseph Kelly
was a prisoner in Amherst jail in 1774. The occasion for it was an
assault he made on John Holman. It seems clear that the cause of the
trouble was political, for the Provincial papers contain several
petitions from some of the towns of Hillsborough County asking for his
release. He was a Nottingham man, and from the records seemed to be in
hot water a good part of the time. He raised a company in June, 1775,
but his men refused to allow Major Hobart to muster them into the
service. His troubles extended to 1787.

Col. Moses Kelly, on the authority of Dearborn, historian of Salisbury,
was born in Newbury, Mass. He was living in Goffstown, N. H., before the
outbreak of the Revolution. He represented that town in the Fourth
Provincial Congress held in May, 1775, and again in the Fifth Provincial
Congress in December, 1775.

He represented Goffstown and Derryfield in the Legislature of 1776.
Although not serving in the Continental army, he was, from the State
records, one of the most active men in the state. It is written of him
that he owned mills in Goffstown at the place now known as Kelly’s Falls
upon the Piscataquog River. He was a zealous patriot, and kept a public
house upon the Mast road. Many of the forays against the Tories of that
neighborhood were concocted at Colonel Kelly’s.

He was appointed major of the Ninth regiment of militia on Dec. 21,
1775, and promoted to colonel of the same regiment in 1779. New
Hampshire possessed an efficient force of militia during the Revolution
and from its ranks were drafted men for three Continental regiments as
occasion required. Some of these militia regiments distinguished
themselves at Bennington, under Stark, and at Rhode Island, under
Sullivan.

It is doubtful if any one man had more to do with affairs at home than
Colonel Kelly, and his special forte was in furnishing recruits for the
veteran regiments at the front. In the reorganization of the state
militia under General Sullivan, in 1784, he was reappointed colonel of
his old command, the Ninth New Hampshire.

Like Sullivan, he was continually in the service of the state in one
capacity or another. As late as 1807, he read the Declaration of
Independence from the top of a large boulder in Amherst, N. H. His son,
bearing the same name, was coroner of Hillsborough County in 1789.
Another son, Hon. Israel Kelly, removed to Salisbury, in 1803. In 1843
he removed to East Concord, where he made his home until his death in
1857.

He was the sheriff of Hillsborough County, a judge of the Court of
Sessions, and United States marshal under President Taylor. His wife was
a sister of Grace Fletcher, who was the wife of Daniel Webster. Her
mother and grandmother, bore the time-honored name of Bridget, denoting
an affinity of some sort with the natives of the Emerald Isle.

Joshua Kelly was one of the proprietors of Conway, N. H., and on its
list of rate payers in 1773. He was one of the active men of the town,
and had seen military service. Samuel Kelly was one of the coroners of
Strafford County in 1776. One of the same name was a member of the House
of Representatives in 1776. It appears again on a petition from Madbury
in 1786. Lieut. Samuel Kelly was one of the special force raised by
Sullivan in December, 1775. A Samuel Kelly served in Captain Barron’s
company from Pembroke in 1776, and a Samuel Kelly was in Captain Moore’s
company in Stark’s regiment in the same year.

Samuel Kelly of New Hampton, undoubtedly one of Darby’s descendants,
served in Col. Hercules Mooney’s regiment in Rhode Island in 1779.

Another Samuel Kelly of Meredith, saw service at Ticonderoga. Rev.
Samuel Kelly, according to Bouton’s History of Concord, N. H., was the
first settled pastor of the Methodist Episcopal church in Concord. He
was chaplain of the state prison in 1730. The name of Samuel Kelly of
Brentwood is mentioned four times in the Provincial deeds, and once
again in Derryfield in 1768. He was undoubtedly the oldest son of Darby
Kelly and one of the first settlers of New Hampton.

Daniel Kelly was in Sanbornton, N. H., in 1748, and another Daniel Kelly
was recorded as a deserter from a British vessel in Boston Harbor in
1770. He probably found the change from the forecastle of a ship to the
picturesque hills of New Hampshire desirable.

Daniel Kelly was ordered to appear before the Committee of Safety at
Exeter to account for being concerned in the destruction of powder at
Brentwood, May 20, 1799. Daniel Kelly was one of two grantees of a
bridge, called Bridgewater and New Hampton bridge, at New Hampton in
1784.

Daniel Kelly was a soldier in Captain Light’s company at Louisburg in
1745. Daniel Kelly of Hawke and Sandown was interested in some scheme
relating to the currency in 1786. The Province deeds contain the name of
Daniel Kelly three times from 1720 to 1731, from Hampton; five times,
from 1737 to 1740, from Kingston, and once each from the towns of Epping
and Newton, and twice from the town of Nottingham, from 1752 to 1764.

Edward Kelly of Sanbornton was one of the signers of the test oath in
1775 and his name and that of his son Edward appears on a petition for a
ferry in 1781, and Edward Kelly was one of the men who enlisted under
Sullivan’s call in November, 1775. He served in the company of Captain
Copp. An Edward Kelly recruited from the militia regiment of Colonel
Webster in 1780 for the Continental army.

The name Edward Kelly is written in two deeds dated 1761 and 1765, both
at Brentwood.

David and Ebenezer Kelly were two signers for the incorporation of a new
town in Strafford County in 1788. David Kelly was a private in Captain
Tilton’s company, Colonel Poore’s regiment, June 12, 1775. Later, he was
promoted to sergeant-major and second lieutenant.

David H. Kelly of Warner was a soldier in Capt. Jonathan Bean’s company
in 1812. Jacob Kelly and Micajah Kelly were in Gilmanton in 1789. Jacob
Kelly and Israel Kelly were two of the grantees of Newport, N. H., in
1753.

Nehemiah Kelly served in Captain Calfe’s company, Colonel Bartlett’s
regiment, in 1776–1777. He was also under Sullivan in Rhode Island.

Philip Kelly was a soldier in Colonel Blanchard’s regiment, at Crown
Point, in 1755.

Robert Kelly’s name was on a petition for the appointment of Captain
Folsom to be lieutenant-colonel of the Fourth regiment in 1775.

Jonathan Kelly of Epping was a soldier in Captain Moore’s company,
Poore’s regiment, in 1775, and served in an expedition to Canada in
1776. He re-enlisted in 1777 in the First New Hampshire of the
Continental line for three years, or during the war. This man had a
splendid record, serving from Bunker Hill to Yorktown. He is recorded as
re-enlisting in 1781 for three more years. His grave, wherever it may
be, should be decorated Memorial Day.

A Jonathan Kelly appears in the list of soldiers living in Northfield,
N. H., in 1785.

Abial Kelly, by the establishment of the boundary line, in 1745, was
transferred to Methuen, Mass. His name often appears in the Province
deeds. Josiah Kelly served in Colonel Gilman’s regiment in 1776. Dr.
Benjamin Kelly, a veteran of the Revolutionary War, was a resident of
Gilmanton in 1801. Stephen Kelly was a ratepayer in Cocheco parish in
1741. Ebenezer Kelly was a petitioner for a classification of towns for
representatives in 1798. He lived in Bridgewater.

Ephraim Kelly was a soldier in Stark’s regiment at Bunker Hill, where he
was wounded.

Holbridge Kelly was on the roll of Colonel Walton’s men for scouting
duty, in 1710. This name occurs eight times in the Province deeds, as of
Stratham, Nottingham and Bow.

Timothy Kelly was one of Captain McConnell’s company, Colonel Hazen’s
regiment, in 1778. As the most of the soldiers in this regiment were of
Irish or French-Canadian parentage, and recruited in Canada, this
Timothy Kelly may have been of Irish birth. Another Timothy Kelly was in
Candia in 1770, and still another was in Boscawen in 1812. His daughter,
who was the wife of Nicholas M. Noyes of the same town, is the authority
for stating that her father was a native of the County Waterford,
Ireland. His parents were well-to-do. He was involved in the movement
for Irish independence in 1798, which resulted in the murder by the
British of Lord Edward Fitzgerald and the execution of Robert Emmet.

For his safety, his parents sent him to this country. He landed in
Newbury, Mass., and from thence he moved to Boscawen, marrying his wife
as stated, and he remained there until the time of his death. Through
him his daughter, Mrs. Noyes, was well acquainted with the history of
Ireland, as well as with the events that resulted in the sad tragedy of
the execution of young Emmet.

He had three sons, John M., Roland B., and Andrew J. Kelly. The latter
was a soldier with an exceptionally fine record. He enlisted for three
years in the New Hampshire battalion of Berdan’s sharpshooters on Aug.
8, 1861. He re-enlisted for three years more on Jan. 2, 1864, remaining
until he was mustered out at the close of the war, June 28, 1865. At
this date, June, 1905, he resides in Hopkinton, N. H., a living type of
one of the trio of “Kelly and Burke and Shea.”

Hon. Timothy Kaley was born in Dunmanway, County Cork, Ireland, in 1817.
He came to this country when quite young. He arrived in New England by
way of Canada, a frequent route taken in these early days by Irish
emigrants, and a sad way it proved to be for thousands whose remains lie
along the banks of the St. Lawrence, from its mouth to Kingston, who
died from ship fever. Mr. Kaley was in business for a time in Canton,
Mass. In 1860 he came to Milford, N. H., where he remained until the
time of his death. In this town he established himself as of the firm
Morse, Kaley & Co., for the manufacture of knitting cotton. The product
of his mill became known all over the country. It is written of him that
“from the time he became a citizen of Milford until the day of his
decease, he ranked among the most enterprising and progressive citizens
of the town.” He was a public-spirited man, taking an active part in the
affairs of the community as well as in those connected with his adopted
state and nation. He was elected to the state senate in 1881 and 1882,
but died before his term of office expired. He was a good speaker, a
ready debater, and was gifted with a very retentive memory.

In 1879 or thereabouts, while in Richmond, Va., on an excursion with the
New Hampshire Club, he declaimed the celebrated speech of Patrick Henry
from the same pew in the historic St. John’s Church in which it was
given originally by the fiery Virginian whose inspiring words “Give me
liberty or give me death” have been repeated in every schoolhouse in New
England.

His son, the Hon. Frank E. Kaley, is the worthy heir of an honored sire.
He is the treasurer of the firm established by his father, director of
Souhegan National Bank, president of the Milford Building and Loan
Association, a trustee of the Milford Savings Bank, vice-president of
the Milford Tanning Co., and a member of the Board of Water
Commissioners. He was elected a member of the Executive Council of
Governor Bachelder for the years 1903 and 1904, but what is better than
all these positions of honor, is that few men in New Hampshire are
esteemed more highly at home or abroad, and what is still better, it is
all deserved.

The name Kaley is without question derived from the same Gaelic root,
Ceallaigh, more commonly known as Kelly, but occasionally written Kaley
and Kiley. The experience of the father and son is a remarkable
illustration of the vigor of the old Gaelic blood, for with equal
opportunities the men in whose veins it runs, let them be Irish or
Highland Scotch, take no second place in the varied walks of life. The
birthplace of Timothy Kaley was not a great distance from that of the
ancestors of the Sullivans of New Hampshire, who also came from the
south of Ireland.

Dr. Nathaniel Kelly was an eminent physician in the town of Plaistow, N.
H., where he was born in 1800. He represented his town in the state
Legislature. Dr. Langley Kelly was another distinguished physician
residing in Weare, N. H., in 1878.

In placing the foregoing names before the reader, one cannot help being
surprised at the number of men bearing a distinctive Irish name
appearing in either the Town, Provincial or State records of New
Hampshire. Even in our day but comparatively few men have their names
printed in the public records. It is safe, therefore, to say that the
greater part of these men had done something to specially merit them a
place in the records.

Again, a good idea can be formed of the number of men bearing
distinctively Irish names, as the number of persons bearing this one
name figured in New Hampshire affairs, or a greater part of them, before
1800, an unusually large proportion of them having seen service in the
Provincial wars or in the war for independence. Assuredly, a most
fitting conclusion to this article will be Mr. Joseph I. C. Clarke’s
poem:


                           THE FIGHTING RACE.

         “Read out the names!” and Burke sat back,
           And Kelly dropped his head,
         While Shea—they called him Scholar Jack—
           Went down the list of the dead:
         Officers, seamen, gunners, marines,
           The crews of the gig and the yawl,
         The bearded man and the lad in his ’teens,
           Carpenters, coal passers—all.
         Then, knocking the ashes from out his pipe,
           Said Burke, in an off-hand way:
         “We’re all in that dead-man’s list, by cripe!—
           Kelly and Burke and Shea.”
         “Well, here’s to the Maine, and I’m sorry for Spain,”
           Said Kelly and Burke and Shea.

         “Wherever there’s Kellys there’s trouble,” said Burke,
           “Wherever fighting’s the game,
         Or a spice of danger in grown man’s work,”
           Said Kelly, “you’ll find my name.”
         “And do we fall short,” said Burke, getting mad,
           “When it’s touch and go for life?”
         Said Shea: “It’s thirty odd years, bedad,
           Since I charged, to drum and fife,
         Up Marye’s Heights, and my old canteen
           Stopped a rebel ball on its way.
         There were blossoms of blood on our sprigs of green—
           Kelly and Burke and Shea—
         And the dead didn’t brag!” “Well, here’s to the flag!”
           Said Kelly and Burke and Shea.

         “I wish ’twas in Ireland—for, there’s the place,”
           Said Burke, “that we’d die by right—
         In the cradle of our soldier race,
           After one good stand-up fight.
         My grandfather fell on Vinegar Hill,
           And fighting was not his trade;
         But his rusty pike’s in the cabin still,
           With Hessian blood on the blade.”
         “Aye, aye,” said Kelly, “the pikes were great
           When the word was ‘Clear the way!’
         We were thick on the roll in 98—
           Kelly and Burke and Shea.”
         “Well, here’s to the pike and the sword and the like,”
           Said Kelly and Burke and Shea.

         And Shea, the Scholar, with rising joy,
           Said: “We were at Ramillies;
         We left our bones at Fontenoy,
           And up in the Pyrennees;
         Before Dunkirk, on Landen’s plain,
           Cremona, Lille and Ghent:
         We’re all over Austria, France, and Spain,
           Wherever they pitched a tent.
         We’ve died for England, from Waterloo
           To Egypt and Dargai;
         And still there’s enough for a corps or a crew—
           Kelly and Burke and Shea.”
         “Well, here’s to good, honest fighting blood!”
           Said Kelly and Burke and Shea.

         “Oh, the fighting races don’t die out,
           If they seldom die in bed—
         For love is first in their hearts, no doubt,”
           Said Burke; then Kelly said:
         “When Michael, the high Archangel, stands,
           The Angel with the sword,
         And the battle-dead from a hundred lands
           Are ranged in one big horde—
         Our line, that for Gabriel’s trumpet waits,
           Will stretch three deep that day,
         From Jehosephat to the Golden Gates—
           Kelly and Burke and Shea.”
         “Well, here’s thank God for the race and the sod!”
           Said Kelly and Burke and Shea.




     SOME EARLY CELEBRATIONS OF ST. PATRICK’S DAY IN NEW YORK CITY,
                               1762–1788.

                      BY HON. JOHN D. CRIMMINS.[8]


St. Patrick’s Day was celebrated in New York City as early as 1762. Of
this fact we have a record. But the anniversary was, doubtless, observed
here even at a much earlier period, if not by organization, then by
groups of congenial friends. Irish residents of Boston, Mass.,
celebrated St. Patrick’s Day as far back as 1737, and, we have no doubt,
the anniversary was as early recognized in New York.

Thomas Dongan, an Irish Roman Catholic, became governor of the Province
of New York in 1683 and held the office until 1688. There is little
doubt that during this period the anniversary of St. Patrick was, in
some manner, observed by the governor and his friends and countrymen in
these parts. It would be strange if this were not so, and we shall not
be surprised if, one of these days, evidence confirmatory of this comes
to light.

As a matter of established fact, however, we for the present date St.
Patrick’s Day celebrations in New York City from 1762. In the New York
_Mercury_, under date of March 15, 1762, we find the following notice:
“The anniversary Feast of St. Patrick is to be celebrated on Wednesday
the 17th instant, at the house of Mr. John Marshall, at Mount Pleasant,
near the College; Gentlemen that please to attend will meet with the
best Usage.” We find no further mention of the event, but the same was,
undoubtedly, a complete success.

A notable celebration took place in New York City in 1766. Some of the
toasts offered on that occasion appear very strange in these days. It
should be remembered, however, that British influence dominated the
gathering and that if any of the assembled company disagreed with “The
Glorious Memory of King William,” for instance, they very wisely kept
their opinions to themselves. Some of the toasts, however, appear to
have been quite commendable. The New York _Gazette_, March 20, 1766, and
the New York _Mercury_, March 24, 1766, have the following account of
the celebration:

  Monday last being the Day of St. Patrick, tutelar Saint of Ireland,
  was ushered in at the Dawn, with Fifes and Drums, which produced a
  very agreeable Harmony before the Doors of many Gentlemen of that
  Nation, and others.

  Many of them assembled, and spent a joyous tho’ orderly Evening, at
  the House of Mr. Bardin in this City, where the following Healths
  were drank, Viz.

    1. The King and Royal House of Hanover.

    2. The Governor and Council of the Province.

    3. The glorious memory of King William, &c.

    4. The Memory of the late Duke of Cumberland.

    5. The Day; and Prosperity to Ireland.

    6. Success to the Sons of Liberty in America, may they never want
         Money, Interest, nor Courage to Maintain their Just Rights.

    7. Mr. Pitt.

    8. General Conway.

    9. May the Enemies of America be branded with Infamy and Disdain.

   10. May the honest Heart never know Distress.

   11. The Protestant Interest.

   12. May all Acts of Parliament Contrary to the American Interest be
         laid aside.

   13. Success to American Manufacturers.

   14. May the true Sons of Liberty never want Roast Beef nor Claret.

   15. More Friends and less need.

   16. Conquest to the Lover and Honour to the Brave.

   17. May we never want Courage when we come to the Trial.

   18. The Lord Lieutenant of Ireland.

   19. May the Enemies of Ireland never eat the Bread nor drink the
         Whisky of it, but be tormented with Itching without the
         benefit of Scratching.

   20. _Our Noble Selves._

The next celebration of which we find mention took place in 1768,
concerning which the New York _Gazette_, March 14, that year, had the
following:


                        THE GENTLEMEN OF IRELAND

  Who intend dining together on St. Patrick’s Day, are desired to send
  their Names to Bolton and Sigell’s that Dinner may be prepared
  accordingly.

In the same issue of the _Gazette_ we also find a statement to the
effect that “The Members of the most ancient and truly benevolent Order
of St. Patrick intend to celebrate the anniversary of that Saint, at the
House of John Marshall, at the ancient Mason’s Arms, near the Hon.
William Walton’s, Esq.; on Thursday the 17th Instant, for which Purpose
Tickets are now delivered at the said John Marshall’s.”

Now comes into view an organization known as the “Friendly Brothers of
St. Patrick.” It appears to have been divided into “knots” and to have
been largely, or entirely, composed of men in the British service. In
the New York _Gazette_ of March 13, 1769, a notice appears, stating
that:

  The principal Knot of the Friendly Brothers of St. Patrick, in the
  XVIth Regiment of Foot, will meet at Messieurs Bolton and Sigel’s,
  on Friday the 17th Inst. being the Patron Day of the Order, at 2
  o’Clock, to dine and transact Business. Such Gentlemen in this City
  as are of the Order, are desired to attend.

  Signed by Order,

                                                        W. F. M. P. S.

In the New York _Journal_, March 30, 1769, is a notice reading as
follows: “The Friendly Brothers of St. Patrick, and several Gentlemen of
this City intend dining together at Bolton and Sigel’s Next Monday, and
from thence to go to the Play in the Evening; such Gentlemen as propose
to join them will be pleased to send in their Names to the Bar of said
Tavern two Days before. New York, March 28, 1769.”

If this latter event was intended as a celebration of St. Patrick’s Day
it is strange that it was held at so late a date after the anniversary.
However, there may have been a special reason for this. It is possible,
too, that it was a union celebration by the Friendly Brothers instead of
by a single “knot” of the organization as was that held on the 17th of
the month.

In 1770, members of “the 16th Regiment of Foot” again paid honor to the
memory of St. Patrick as the following notice in the New York _Gazette_
of March 12th, that year, indicated they would:

  The Principal Knot of the Friendly Brothers of St. Patrick, in the
  16th Regiment of Foot, will meet at Bolton’s on Saturday the 17th
  Instant, being the Patron Day of the Order, at 9 o’Clock in the
  Forenoon to breakfast, transact Business and dine. Such Gentlemen in
  this City as are of the Order, are desired to attend. Signed by
  Order,

                                                        J. F. J. P. S.

We again find mention of the Friendly Brothers in the New York _Gazette_
of March 25, 1771, it being there stated that “at the usual celebration
of the repeal of the Stamp Act on 18 March, the assemblage on 18 March
1771, drank the usual toast ‘Prosperity to Ireland and the worthy Sons
and Daughters of St. Patrick.’ Messages of civil Compliments were
exchanged by those Gentlemen and the Friendly Brothers of St. Patrick,
who dined at the Queen’s-Head Tavern; as also with a Number of other
Gentlemen who dined at Protestant Hall, at Mr. Samuel Waldron’s, on Long
Island.”

In Rivington’s New York _Gazette_, March 10, 1774, we find a notice to
the effect that “The Friendly Brothers are desired to meet at Hull’s
Tavern, on Thursday the 17th instant. Dinner to be on table precisely at
three o’clock.—F. T. M.”

The same paper under date of March 17, 1774, says “This morning the
Gentlemen who compose the most benevolent society of the Friendly
Brothers of St. Patrick will give a very elegant breakfast, at Hull’s to
the principal Ladies and Gentlemen of this city, in commemoration of the
tutelar Saint of Ireland, it being their Patron Day,” and the same issue
of the _Gazette_ announces that “The Concert which was to have been
performed at the Assembly Room, as usual this Evening, is deferred until
next Monday Evening, on Account of a public Breakfast, given by the
Gentlemen, who compose the Society of The Friendly Brothers.”

On March 16, 1775, Rivington’s New York _Gazette_ announced that
“To-morrow being the anniversary of St. Patrick, Tutelar Saint of
Ireland, will be observed with the usual respect and attention, by his
generous sons and their descendants.”

The British evacuated New York Nov. 25, 1783. Thenceforth, the St.
Patrick’s Day celebrations there took place under the inspiring presence
of a different order of things.

The evacuation of New York by the enemy was attended by many interesting
features. Preceding it, a conference took place at Dobb’s Ferry between
Washington, Governor Clinton and Sir Guy Carleton. At this conference,
it was arranged that the British were to get out of New York on the date
above mentioned. On the morning of Nov. 25, General Knox, who was of
Irish parentage, marched his men in from Harlem as far as “Bowery Lane.”
There he halted, at what is now the junction of Third Avenue and the
Bowery. The Americans remained here until about 1 p. m., as the enemy
had claimed the right of possession until noon. Before 3 p. m., Knox had
taken control of the city and of Fort George, amid the acclamations of a
great concourse. Washington located at Fraunces’ Tavern, where during
the afternoon a public dinner to the officers of the army was given by
Governor Clinton. In the evening the city was illuminated by rockets,
bonfires and other evidences of rejoicing. The British flag at Fort
George had been nailed to the staff and the latter was then made as
slippery as possible. The emblem of tyranny was soon removed, however,
and the American flag hoisted in its place.

On St. Patrick’s Day, 1784, the year following the British evacuation of
New York, a celebration took place in that city under the auspices of
the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, a society organized that year and
which is still in existence. The exercises comprised a banquet at Cape’s
Tavern. Speaking of this event, the New York _Packet and Advertiser_, of
the next day, says:

  Yesterday, being the anniversary of St. Patrick, his patriotic sons
  met at Cape’s Tavern, where they gave an elegant entertainment to
  His Excellency the Governor, Lieut.-Governor, Chancellor, and a
  number of other respectable gentlemen of this State. The day and
  evening were spent in festivity and mirth, and a number of suitable
  toasts were drank upon this joyful occasion. The greatest unanimity
  and conviviality pervaded this numerous and jovial company, and
  perhaps this great Saint was never honored with a concourse of more
  generous and truly patriotic sons than this assembly afforded.

In 1785, the same organization observed St. Patrick’s Day by dining at
“The Coffee House,” conducted by Mr. Bradford, in Water Street, near
Wall Street. The society dined there again in 1786, the New York _Daily
Advertiser_ stating that “Yesterday the Society of the Friendly Sons of
St. Patrick held their anniversary meeting at the Coffee-House, where an
elegant dinner was provided by Mr. Bradford.—The company were numerous
and respectable; and the day spent with that decorum and hilarity, so
truly characteristic of this friendly society.”

Speaking of this observance, the _Independent Journal_, March 18, and
the New York _Packet_, March 20, 1786, inform their readers that “The
anniversary of St. Patrick, patron of the Irish nation, was on Friday
celebrated with great festivity by our worthy friends of that kingdom: A
very elegant entertainment was provided at Mr. Bradford’s Coffee-House,
at which were present His Excellency the Governor, the Lieutenant
Governor, the Chancellor, Chief Justice, Judge Hobart, the Mayor,
Recorder, and many other persons of distinction.—The day and evening
passed with that convivial spirit which ever distinguished the true
Milesian.”

In 1788, the Friendly Sons, it is stated, dined at the Merchants’ Coffee
House, at the southeast corner of Wall and Water streets. The New York
_Journal & Patriotic Register_, March 18, that year notes two
celebrations, the first of which is believed to refer to the Friendly
Sons. The _Register’s_ mention thus reads:


                              ST. PATRICK.

  Yesterday, being the anniversary of the Tutelar Saint of Ireland, a
  number of gentlemen of that nation, assembled at the Merchants’
  Coffee House, in this city, where they partook of an elegant
  entertainment, drank a number of toasts, and “liberally good cheer
  did bestow.”

  A company also met at Corre’s.

The New York _Packet_ speaking of the observance in 1788, states that a
large company assembled “at the Coffee house” but does not mention
“Merchants’.” The reference appears in the _Packet_ of March 18, that
year, and states that “Yesterday being the anniversary of St. Patrick,
the Tutelar Saint of Ireland, a large company of gentlemen, natives of
that country, assembled at the Coffee-House; where a genteel
entertainment was provided, and which was well conducted. True festive
mirth and hilarity were displayed at this convivial board.”




       WILLIAM PRENDERGAST, A PIONEER OF CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY, N. Y.

                     BY MISS HELEN PRENDERGAST.[9]


About one mile back of the west shore of Lake Chautauqua, N. Y., and
almost directly behind the present Chautauqua Assembly ground, lies a
farm now occupied by Chauncey Moses. This farm was formerly the home of
William Prendergast, one of the pioneers of Chautauqua County.

To the rear of the house, and on a hill, is an old family graveyard
where are buried the pioneer, his wife and many of their children and
other descendants. The pioneer’s tombstone bears an inscription stating
that he was born in Kilkenny County, Ireland, Feb. 2, 1727, that he was
a son of Thomas and Mary Prendergast, and that he died Feb. 14, 1811.

His wife, Mehitable (Wing) Prendergast, is buried beside him. The
inscription on her tombstone states that she was the daughter of
Jedediah and Elizabeth Wing of Beeker, Dutchess County, N. Y., that she
was born March 20, 1737, and died Sept. 14, 1811.

For some years after their marriage, Mr. Prendergast and his wife
resided at Pawlings, Dutchess County. I have heard it said that William,
the pioneer, came to America when he was but nineteen years of age. He
continued to live at Pawlings until the year 1766. At that time the
inhabitants of Rensselaer, Dutchess and Columbia counties who rented
their lands, instead of owning them, became dissatisfied by what they
considered the unreasonable demands of the proprietors, and broke out in
open revolt.

Prendergast, who was looked upon as a leader of the disaffected, was
taken prisoner, tried for treason and sentenced to death. He was,
however, pardoned by the British king, George IV, on taking an oath
never again to bear arms against the government of England. This oath he
kept, so that during the Revolution neither he nor his sons were
actively engaged in the Patriot cause, although sympathizing therewith.

After his pardon, he removed to Pittstown, Rensselaer County, twenty-two
miles above Albany, N. Y., where he lived until 1805. At this time the
family decided to remove to Tennessee, and departed for thence,
traveling in wagons and on horseback. Not liking the place, they
returned through Ohio and Pennsylvania to New York state. When they had
reached a point some miles within New York, the horse ridden by Thomas
Prendergast, one of the sons, became lame. Being near a settler’s log
cabin, Thomas entered the latter and soon prevailed upon the settler to
sell him his claim. Thomas, therefore, decided to go no further but to
settle there and make the locality his home, which he accordingly did.


William Prendergast, the pioneer, and his wife, were the parents of
seven sons and six daughters. All but one of these children arrived at
maturity, and all but one settled in Chautauqua County, N. Y. The
children just mentioned were:

   1. Matthew, born Aug. 5, 1756; died July 24, 1838.

   2. Thomas, born Sept, 11, 1757; died June 3, 1842.

   3. Mary, born 1760; died July 11, 1845.

   4. Elizabeth, born Aug. 30, 1762; died Aug. 31, 1824.

   5. James, born March 9, 1764; died June 18, 1846.

   6. Jedediah, born May 13, 1766; died March 1, 1848.

   7. Martin, born April 22, 1769; died June 21, 1835.

   8. John Jeffrey, born 1771; date of death unknown.

   9. Susanna, born April 22, 1773; died Aug. 8, 1847.

  10. Elinor, died in infancy.

  11. Martha, born March 18, 1777; died Dec. 9, 1849.

  12. William, born 1779; died Nov. 11, 1857.

  13. Minerva, born Aug. 26, 1782; died March 30, 1858.

The foregoing data, relating to the births and deaths of the children,
while possibly not exact in every instance, is approximately so, and is
the best it is now possible to procure. Of the children here mentioned:

   1. Matthew became associate judge of Niagara County, N. Y., from
        which Chautauqua County was taken.

   2. Thomas became a successful farmer.

   3. Mary married William Bemus.

   4. Elizabeth died unmarried.

   5. James founded Jamestown, N. Y., built and operated mills,
        conducted a store, and became judge of the Court of Common
        Pleas.

   6. Jedediah became a physician. He also engaged, with his brother
        Martin, in mercantile pursuits. He was of scholarly tastes, took
        special interest in geology, and at the invitation of DeWitt
        Clinton once wrote several articles on the geology of that
        section of New York state. These articles were afterward
        published by Governor Clinton just mentioned. Jedediah has one
        grandson living in Canada. Jedediah’s only daughter, Catharine,
        wedded Hon. Hamilton Merritt.

   7. Martin was associate judge of Niagara County and was supervisor
        for Chautauqua township for eighteen terms.

   8. Susanna became the wife of Oliver Whiteside, but was a widow with
        two daughters when she came to Chautauqua County.

  11. Martha died unmarried.

  12. William was a farmer, but is best known as Colonel Prendergast. He
        enlisted in the army during the War of 1812, took part in the
        battle of Black Rock, under Col. James McMahan, and won
        promotion.

  13. Minerva became the wife of Elihu Marvin, but was soon left a widow
        with a son and daughter of tender years.

I can remember when I was a child of six or seven years of visiting
Colonel Prendergast’s house on Christmas Day and seeing his wife roast
the turkey in a tin oven before the fireplace, cooking the vegetables in
kettles hung on a crane over the blaze and pounding coffee in a mortar.
She also “dipped” her candles and cooked in a brick oven.

She had a red broadcloth cloak, trimmed with red satin, which I was
allowed to wear if I would sit still, and at the end of the visit my
great-great uncle always gave me a piece of gold or silver money. One
yet in my possession bears the date 1776.

Alexander T. Prendergast was a son of James Prendergast, the founder of
Jamestown, N. Y., and of his wife, whose maiden name was Agnes Thompson.
This Alexander had one son, James, who was a lawyer by profession and
served as a member of the State Assembly. His parents founded the James
Prendergast Free Library at Jamestown, an Episcopal church there called
the Prendergast Memorial, gave a public drinking fountain, a window in
the Congregational church, scholarships in the Jamestown schools, and
other benefactions. There are no living descendants of James, John,
William, Minerva, Martha, Elizabeth, or Elinor—children of William
Prendergast, the pioneer.

Descendants of others of the children achieved a good measure of
success. One of them, Col. Henry A. Prendergast, served as a paymaster
during the Civil War and died of sickness contracted in the service. He
was also a member for many terms of the New York State Assembly.

My own grandfather, a son of Matthew Prendergast, participated in the
battle of Black Rock during the War of 1812, and rendered able service
as a surgeon. He served many terms as a supervisor and was a famous
physician. The only members of this family, bearing the Prendergast
name, now left in Chautauqua County are my two brothers—John H. and Dr.
William Prendergast—and James Hunt Prendergast, son of John H. This
James is a lawyer practising at Westfield, N. Y. To these must be added
myself. My sister, Mrs. Whallon, has a grandchild named William
Prendergast Whallon who is now eight years of age and is of the seventh
generation.




  MASTER JOHN SULLIVAN OF SOMERSWORTH AND BERWICK, AND HIS FAMILY.[10]

                     BY JOHN SCALES OF DOVER, N. H.


Thomas Coffin Amory begins his biography of his grandfather, Gov. James
Sullivan, as follows:

  James, the fourth son of Master Sullivan, was born in Berwick, Me.,
  22d April, 1744. The cellar of the house occupied by his parents is
  easily distinguished by some portions of its walls still remaining
  in a field near Salmon Falls river, and within half a mile of Great
  Falls village. The barn which served to store away their harvests
  for the long winters of New England climate has only quite recently
  (1858) been destroyed by fire. Near by, but separated from the old
  dwelling by a public road, laid out in comparatively modern times
  across the farm, is the ancient cemetery, where Master Sullivan and
  Margery his wife, when their long protracted lives were over, were
  laid to their last repose amid the scenes of their humble labors and
  of the pleasures and various vicissitudes of more than half a
  century.

The above is incorrect in one particular: Gov. James Sullivan was not
born in Berwick, Me.; he was born in Somersworth, N. H., then a parish
in Dover. Mr. Amory made the mis-statement because he had not all the
facts at hand in regard to the question. That particular part of
Somersworth in which Master Sullivan lived is now in the town of
Rollinsford, having been set off from Somersworth in 1849, and is now
the village at Rollinsford Junction.

This village is one mile from Salmon Falls village and one mile from
South Berwick village, at the lower fall where the fresh water meets the
tide water; this is the ancient Quamphegan, and the point where the
river changes its name to Newichawannick, which it holds till it gets to
Dover Point, where it joins the Pascataqua, six miles from Quamphegan.
The settlers on Dover Neck did not use the Indian name Newichawannick,
but called it Fore River, and the river on the west side of the Neck
they called Back River.

The Somersworth village in the days of Master Sullivan was much larger
than the modern village of Rollinsford Junction; this is distant about
four miles from the depot in the city of Somersworth. For more than a
century it was the home of several of the leading men of New Hampshire.
It was the home of Master Sullivan from 1723 to 1754. Here his children
were born; here he did the most important part of his teaching; here he
educated his sons to be governors, and leaders in the Revolution, and
leaders after the American government was formed.

They were important factors in forming the state governments of New
Hampshire and Massachusetts. At this village school of Master Sullivan
the sons of many other men were taught in a way that fitted them to
enter Harvard College, and fitted them to be leaders in the great
struggle for independence. Here Master Sullivan not only kept school,
but was also the scribe and counselor for his neighbors and
fellow-citizens.

He was a fine penman, and wrote wills, deeds, mortgages, and such other
legal documents as the needs of the parish demanded. Here he served in
the local military company; here he swept the parish meeting-house and
rang the bell for services on the Lord’s day; here he sat under the
ministrations of Rev. James Pike, who was the faithful and able pastor
of this parish for more than sixty years.

The farm which Mr. Amory speaks of in Berwick was purchased by Master
Sullivan in August, 1753. He bought it of Mr. Samuel Lord, and there is
no record that he bought any land anywhere before that date. It is on a
beautiful elevation which overlooks the city of Somersworth, a mile
away, across the Salmon Falls River. Much of the land is now cut up into
streets and house lots in the fast-growing village of Berwick. A garden
occupies the spot where Master Sullivan’s house stood; a street crosses
the spot where he and his good wife were buried. Their remains were
removed to the Sullivan cemetery in Durham, and now repose near the
grave of their illustrious son, Gen. John Sullivan.

It is not known precisely when he moved his family to Berwick, but
probably in 1754, and there they resided more than forty years. In
Berwick he was a farmer, as well as a schoolmaster and scrivener for his
townsmen. Tradition says that his wife was the better farmer of the two.
He was so fond of his books that the weeds oftentimes got the better of
his crops. His wife Margery cared nothing for books, and delighted in
out-door work.

The town of South Berwick was set off from Berwick in 1814; the First
parish is at South Berwick, and recently celebrated its two hundredth
anniversary with an elaborate and interesting service. In 1754 the
present Berwick was established as the North parish, on petition of 39
freeholders (landowners). This petition for an enabling act to choose
parish officers was granted by Governor Shirley and the council, April
17, 1754, the house concurring on the next day. One of the 39 signers to
that petition was Master John Sullivan. He helped organize the parish
and owned a pew in the meeting-house; later two of his sons owned pews
there.

Because Master Sullivan spent the last 40 years of his life in this
parish of Berwick, the writers of cyclopedias, biographical
dictionaries, and biographies of his sons have taken it for granted that
he always lived there, hence say his sons were born there. If Master
Sullivan’s sons were like the ordinary sons of men, nobody would care or
take the trouble to inquire whether they were born in Maine or New
Hampshire. They are not like ordinary sons; they are extraordinary, and
that is why New Hampshire should claim the honor which is its due, just
as we delight to boast that Webster and Chase, and a host of
distinguished men, are the sons of New Hampshire. The Sullivan family is
one of the most notable families in the history of New England. There
were five sons and one daughter. I will give a brief summary of their
lives.

I. Benjamin was born in 1736; he received a thorough education from his
father; he enlisted in the British navy and rose to be an officer, when
most young men would be only ordinary seamen; he was tall, handsome and
brilliant, and walked the decks as one who was born to command.
Unfortunately, he and his ship, with all on board, were lost at sea just
previous to the Revolution.

II. Daniel, the second son, was born in 1738; after being carefully
educated by his father he engaged in mercantile business in Berwick and
was very successful; about 1770 he was leader of a company of gentlemen
who founded a town at the head of Frenchman’s Bay in eastern Maine; this
town is called Sullivan in his honor. When the Revolutionary War
commenced he organized and commanded a company which did valiant service
for the Patriot cause; he was leader in the defense of Castine against
the attacks of the British navy. Captain Sullivan was so conspicuous and
efficient in the defense that the officers of the fleet marked him for
special revenge; one ship went up from Mt. Desert to the head of
Frenchman’s Bay specially to capture the captain; a sortie of marines at
midnight went to his house, when all the family were asleep, caught the
captain, drove his family out of doors and burned the house and
contents; the British officer offered to release him if he would swear
allegiance to the king; the captain positively refused to accept freedom
on such condition; he was then carried to New York city and confined in
a prison ship several months; he was then exchanged but died on his way
home, from disease contracted while in prison. He has the reputation of
being a man of extraordinary ability, both as a military leader and a
business man. Before the war he had acquired large possessions in land,
lumber, and sawmills.

III. John, the third son, was born in 1740; after thorough training by
his father, he studied law with Judge Livermore in Portsmouth; he
commenced practice of the law in Berwick in 1761, and was married about
that time. He removed to Durham in 1763, much against the wishes of some
of the good people in that town, who feared a lawyer would make trouble.
General Sullivan was the first lawyer the town ever had; but the people
soon learned to love and respect him; although his office was in Durham,
his practice soon extended throughout Rockingham and Strafford counties
in New Hampshire and York County in Maine; his success was remarkable.

Before 1775 he was acknowledged as leader at the bar in all of those
counties, where John Adams, the second president of the United States,
was for several years one of his competitors; not only was he a great
lawyer but he also engaged extensively in business, owning several mills
and much real estate; at the opening of the war it was estimated he was
worth £40,000; most men with such holdings would have hesitated much
before rebelling against the king of England; John Sullivan did not
hesitate; he took the lead and was commander of the expedition which
committed the first overt act of war in the Revolution, by capturing and
removing the gunpowder from Fort William and Mary at Newcastle, Dec. 14,
1774; of course you all know the story; the hundred barrels of powder
were taken up the river to Durham and hid in various places; a larger
part was placed in the cellar of the old church near General Sullivan’s
residence; the monument to his memory now stands on the spot.

Some of that powder was used at the battle of Bunker Hill; all of it was
used in the Revolutionary War, except a small bottleful which Maj. John
Demeritt of Madbury now has, being handed down to him as an inheritance
from his ancestors; this capture of the powder was four months before
the Lexington and Concord affair.

While attending to his law business and his sawmills and lumbering, he
had taken a hand in the local military affairs, and in 1774 was major of
the regiment of militia in his section of the province; Governor
Wentworth could not persuade him to hold it after the little affair at
Fort William and Mary; he was delegate to the first Continental Congress
in 1775; he was appointed brigadier-general in the Continental army in
1775; a major-general in 1776; commanded the New Hampshire troops at
Germantown and Brandywine; commander-in-chief in the Rhode Island
campaign in 1778; commander-in-chief in the great and hazardous
expedition against the Six Nations in 1779, which resulted in the
overthrow of the most complete organization of the Indians ever effected
on this continent. To commemorate this great service of General Sullivan
the state of New York has erected costly tablets on the spots where the
most important encounters took place.

This was General Sullivan’s closing service in the military operations
of the war. I think he should be ranked second only to Greene and
Washington as a military leader. His services in civil affairs which
immediately followed were quite as valuable and important as his
military service. In 1780 he drafted the bill, which the Legislature
adopted, to regulate the militia; in 1781 he was delegate in the
National Congress; in 1782, ’83 and ’84 he was attorney-general of New
Hampshire; he was president of the state in 1786, ’87 and 89; he was the
Federal candidate in 1788 but was defeated by John Langdon, the
Republican candidate. Sullivan had defeated Langdon in the two years
previous, and in the year following; Sullivan was a Washington
federalist; he was a presidential elector when Washington was elected
the first time; he was president of the convention that adopted the
Federal constitution, June 21, 1788, which was the act that established
the Federal union; the vote stood 57 in favor to 42 against adoption; it
was largely through the influence of General Sullivan that the 57 votes
were secured and the Federal union was formed.

September 26, 1789, President Washington appointed him United States
district judge for New Hampshire, and he entered upon the duties of that
office Dec. 15 of that year; he remained in that office until his death,
Jan. 23, 1795, being nearly fifty-five years old, having been born on
the 17th of February, 1740. A better American, a more capable, a more
useful, or more fearless citizen than John Sullivan, New Hampshire never
had.

In this connection it may be well to say a few words about his
descendants, to show how strong was the hereditary force that came down
from Master Sullivan. General Sullivan’s son John was a prominent and
able lawyer in one of the Southern states, but died young. His son
George was attorney-general of New Hampshire twenty years. His grandson,
John, son of George, was attorney-general ten years or more, and his
grand nephew, John S. Wells, held the same office several years. They
were all able attorneys, and no family in the state has the equal of
this illustrious record.

IV. James, the fourth son of Master Sullivan, was born in Somersworth in
May, 1744, and died in Boston, Dec. 10, 1808. He was thoroughly educated
by his father, quite the equal of a Harvard graduate of that period; he
studied law with his brother John; opened an office at Saco about 1767
and practised his profession there until about 1780; he was very
successful, and with his brother John did the larger part of the law
business in York County. When he was twenty-six years old he was
appointed attorney-general for the district of Maine and held the office
until the Revolution began; he was delegate in the first Continental
Congress, when he was thirty years old; when he was thirty-one he was
appointed judge of admiralty; the next year he was promoted to a seat on
the bench of the Supreme Court, which office he held several years; he
removed to Boston in 1782. While he was in Maine, John Adams, who used
to go down there once or twice a year to attend court at Saco and
Portland, said that he always found the Sullivans in possession of all
the best and most important cases.

In 1783, ’84 and ’85 he was delegate in the Continental Congress, and
also was representative from Boston in the Massachusetts General Court;
he was member of the Executive Council in 1787; judge of probate from
1788 to 1790; attorney-general from 1790 to 1807; in 1804 he was
presidential elector, casting his vote for Thomas Jefferson, of whom he
was a great admirer. The _Federalist_ abused him fearfully for so
voting. He was governor of Massachusetts in 1807 and 1808, dying a short
time before his term expired. Notwithstanding he gave so much time to
official business, he was one of the founders of the Massachusetts
Historical Society and its president many years; he wrote and published
a history of Maine; he published numerous pamphlets on various questions
that concerned current business affairs; he was a clear and forcible
writer and an eloquent advocate; he delivered innumerable addresses on
public occasions and stood in the front rank of literary men and the
legal fraternity of Boston.

V. Mary Sullivan was the fifth child of this remarkable family; she was
born in 1752; her father as carefully educated her as he did his sons;
she was tall and handsome, like her father, and inherited his fondness
for books; she was brilliant and attractive, mentally and socially; like
her father she was a successful teacher several years, at a time when
most women thought they were highly accomplished if they could write
their own names. She married Mr. Theophilus Hardy and resided in Durham
near her brother John. To them were born several daughters; one of
these, a very gifted woman, married Edward Wells, Esq., and they also
resided in Durham, which was then one of the liveliest business centers
of the state. They had a large family of children, and several of the
sons manifested those strong traits of intellectual power of their
Sullivan ancestors; one son, Samuel Wells, was governor of Maine two
years, 1858 and 1859; another son, John Sullivan Wells, whom many of you
may remember, lacked only fifty votes of being elected governor of New
Hampshire in 1856, the Know-Nothing tidal wave being a little too much
for him to overcome; he was attorney-general several years; United
States senator; speaker of the House in the New Hampshire Legislature,
and also president of the Senate. He was an able lawyer, a brilliant and
fascinating public speaker, and one of the most popular men in his party
and he was generally popular with all parties. Another brother, Joseph
Bartlett Wells, was a distinguished lawyer in Illinois, where he was
attorney-general several years, and was lieutenant-governor at the time
of his death; had he lived he would undoubtedly have been governor of
the state. A fourth brother was consul at Bermuda several years and died
there. These were great-grandsons of Master John Sullivan.

VI. Ebenezer was the sixth child and youngest son of Master Sullivan and
his wife Margery; he was born in 1753, and died in 1797. He was educated
by his father and studied law with his brother John. Before he could get
established in his profession the Revolution commenced, and he engaged
earnestly in the cause of the colonies; starting as a private, he rose
to be captain of a company and did valiant service.

He was taken prisoner and narrowly escaped being burned at the stake by
the Indians. After the war he married and resided at South Berwick, and
engaged in the practice of his profession. He was the leader at the bar
in York County, a thorough lawyer and a powerful advocate. He was a
tall, handsome, powerfully-built man, whose presence was commanding
wherever he stood.

Such were the children of Master Sullivan. What say you, Mr. President,
are these boys worthy for the New Hampshire Historical Society to claim
them as sons of New Hampshire?

Seven cities claimed the honor of being the birthplace of Homer. Other
great men in later times have honored the cities where they were born by
their great deeds; should not New Hampshire feel everlastingly honored
by having such a family born within its borders? I will take it for
granted that you will answer all my questions in the affirmative. Then
what proof have I that they _were_ born in New Hampshire and not in
Maine? I will tell you shortly.

On page 356 of McClintock’s _History of New Hampshire_ Fred Myron Colby
has the following concerning Master John Sullivan:

  The grandfather of the New Hampshire Sullivans was Major Philip
  O’Sullivan of Ardea, an officer of the Irish army during the siege
  of Limerick. His son John, born at Limerick in 1692, was one of the
  company that in 1723 emigrated from Ireland and settled the town of
  Belfast in Maine. At this place he hired a sawmill and went to work.
  Two or three years afterward another vessel of Irish emigrants
  landed at Belfast. On board was a blooming young damsel, who, after
  the custom of those days, had agreed with the shipmaster to be bound
  out at service in the colonies in payment of her passage across the
  Atlantic. She was bright and witty, with a mind of a rough but noble
  cast. During the passage over a fellow-passenger jocosely asked her
  what she expected to do when she arrived in the colonies. “Do?”
  answered she with true Celtic wit, “why raise governors for thim.”
  Sullivan saw the girl as she landed, and struck with her beauty,
  made a bargain with the captain, paying her passage in shingles. He
  wooed and won her, and the Irish girl entered upon her initiatory
  steps to make good her declaration. Immediately after his marriage
  (1735) Mr. Sullivan settled on a farm in Berwick and began clearing
  it for the plow.

Following this is a statement that John was the oldest son of this
couple, and a lot more of fictitiously interesting biography of the
general. Now what are the facts?

Master Sullivan landed in York, Me., from Limerick, Ireland, in the
winter of 1723; he hadn’t a cent to pay the captain for his passage
across the Atlantic. After working at farming a week or so he got weary
of it, and applied to Rev. Dr. Moody, pastor of Scotland parish, to help
him. He made his application in a letter written in seven languages, so
the doctor might know he was an educated man. The worthy doctor was
favorably impressed, and loaned him the money to pay his fare and then
helped him to a school in Dover. May 20, 1723,[11] Master “Sullefund”
was chosen one of the two teachers of the town of Dover, at £30 salary
per year. Just where he kept that school is not stated in the record,
but it undoubtedly was in that part of Dover then called the “Summer
parish,” from the fact that meetings were held in a barn there during
the summer and fall by Parson Cushing, then pastor of the First parish.

These summer meetings were held to accommodate the people who objected
to walking or riding five or six miles to attend meetings at Cochecho,
where now is the center of the city of Dover. As this is the place where
Master Sullivan spent thirty years of his life, I may as well explain
further in regard to this name, Somersworth, which is unique in the
history of towns and cities in the United States, no other place in the
country having that name.

The people had become familiar to having the village called the “Summer
parish,” so in 1730, when this district was separated from the First
parish as a distinct parish, it was the most natural thing for the
leaders, who were educated men, to retain the familiar name, and they
did it by changing “parish” to “worth,” and they had “Summersworth.” The
word “worth” is the old English termination for names of places, so
Summer parish and Summersworth mean precisely the same thing. You will
notice that the present spelling is Somersworth.

The ancient spelling of the parish was Summersworth, and when the
citizens petitioned for an act of incorporation as a town they asked to
have it spelled that way, but when they got their charter they found
that the clerk of the General Court, or somebody else, had changed “Sum”
to “Som,” so they let it go that way. This change in orthography made no
change in the meaning of the name. According to Dr. Samuel Johnson,
whose large dictionary was published in 1755, the year after this town
was chartered, “Sumer” is Saxon and “Somer” is Dutch for the English
word “Summer.”

Before Summersworth was made a separate parish the town of Dover looked
after the schools; but after it became a parish the people managed their
own schools by votes in parish meetings. July 2, 1734, the parish “Voted
that Hercules Mooney be the schoolmaster here for one month (viz) from
July 4^{th} to Aug^t 4^{th}, 1734 next ensuing at three pounds fifteen
shillings per month.”

“Voted that Capt. Thomas Wallingford and Mr. Philip Stackpole be the men
that Joyn with the Selectmen at the months end above to agree with Mr.
Mooney or any other suitable person to keep school in this Parish for
the Residue of this Sumer and autum.”

In 1735 it was “Voted that Mr. Jon^o Scrugham be school master for one
month in this Parish at the Descression of the Selectmen.” Also, “Voted
that there be thirty pounds raised to Defray the Charge of a school this
sumer and autum.”

In 1737 the parish “Voted sixty pounds for a school master.”

“Voted that Mr. John Sullivan be the schoolmaster for the ensuing year.”

“Voted that John Sullivan to sweep and take care of ye meeting house &
to have thirty shillings.”

From that date to 1752 no schoolmaster is named, but from year to year
the parish would vote to have a school and leave the matter with the
selectmen to hire a teacher. As they had voted Master Sullivan in once,
it was taken for granted that he would be the teacher. April 6, 1752,
“Voted Mr. Joseph Tate twenty three pounds old tenor to keep ye Parish
School one month.” The record does not show that Master Sullivan kept
the parish school after Mr. Tate began work there.

Master Sullivan was married to Margery Browne in 1735. Soon after that
he commenced to sign his name as witness to documents as “John Sullivan
of Summersworth.” Their third child, John, was born in 1740. In 1787,
when he was the Federalist candidate for governor, then called
president, his opponents charged him as guilty of being born in Berwick,
Me., hence was not eligible for the office.

The _New Hampshire Gazette_, March 10, 1787, replied to this as follows:

  Surely the collector of intelligence has not consulted all the
  people in this state, or he would have found out that President
  Sullivan was born in Somersworth, in the county of Strafford.

In the summer of 1743 Master Sullivan and his wife had a falling out,
and he went off to Boston to remain till her temper cooled. She repented
of her cruel treatment, and published the following advertisement in the
Boston _Evening Post_, July 25, 1743, from which I copied it in the
Boston Public Library. It shows conclusively that Summersworth was
Master Sullivan’s home in 1743:


                             ADVERTISEMENT.

  MY DEAR AND LOVING HUSBAND:

  Your abrupt departure from me, and forsaking of me your wife and
  tender babes, which I now humbly acknowledge and confess, I was
  greatly if not wholly the cause by my too rash and unadvised speech
  and behaviour towards you; for which I now in this public manner
  humbly ask your forgiveness, and hereby promise upon your return to
  amend and reform and by my future loving and obedient carriage
  toward you, endeavor to make an atonement for my past evil deeds,
  and manifest to you and to the whole world, that I can become a new
  woman, and will prove to you a loving, dutiful and tender wife.

  If you do not regard what I have above written, I pray you harken to
  what your pupil, Joshua Gilpatrick, hath below sent you, as also the
  lamentations and cries of your poor children, especially the eldest
  (Benjamin) who though but seven years old, all rational people
  really conclude that unless you speedily return will end in his
  death; and the moans of your other children (Daniel and John) are
  enough to affect any human heart.

  And why, my dear husband, should a few angry and unkind words from
  an angry and foolish wife [for which I am now paying full dear,
  having neither eat, drank nor slept in quiet, and am already reduced
  almost to a skeleton, that unless you favor me with your company
  will bereave me of my life] make you thus forsake me and your
  children? How can you thus, for so slender a cause as a few rash
  words from a simple and weak woman, cause you to part from your
  tender babes, who are your own flesh and blood? Pray meditate on
  what I now send and reprieve your poor wife and eldest son, who take
  your departure so heavily, from a lingering though certain death, by
  your coming home to them again, as speedily as you can, where you
  shall be kindly received, and in a most submissive manner by your
  wife who is ready at your desire to lay herself at your feet for her
  past miscarriage, and am with my and your children’s kind love to
  you, your loving wife.

                                                     MARGERY SULLIVAN.

  SUMMERSWORTH, NEW HAMPSHIRE, July 11, 1743.

The Hon. Thomas Wallingford, who resided in Summersworth and lived near
Master Sullivan, was captain of the company of militia in that parish in
1746, and probably several years before. The late Rev. Dr. A. H. Quint
had the muster roll of this company, and I presume his widow now has it.
Dr. Quint published it in his _Historical Memoranda_, and it can be
found on page 377 of the book of this memoranda that I recently
published. In this list of soldiers appears Master Sullivan’s name,
although the clerk of the company spells it “John Sullevant.” Of course
he was an old resident there, or he would not have been enrolled as a
soldier.

Another witness, and I leave this part of my subject. Mr. Michael Reade
of Dover was born in the same year as General Sullivan and lived to be
more than eighty years old. He went to school to Master Sullivan and
knew him and the boys well, hence, of course, knew where they lived.
This Michael Reade’s son Michael was born in 1773, and lived to be more
than eighty years old. He knew Master Sullivan, saw him many times, and
his father told him much about the old master; among other things, that
he lived in Summersworth many years before he removed to Berwick and
united farming with school teaching. The younger Michael Reade was
living when Dr. Quint wrote much of his _Historical Memoranda_, and
furnished the doctor many facts about many topics, and one was that his
father always said General Sullivan and his brothers were born in
Summersworth.

I will give a brief summary of the points: May 20, 1723, the town of
Dover voted to hire him to teach school one year and give him £30. Jan.
10, 1737, he wrote and witnessed a deed, Tebbets to Tebbets, and signed
as of Summersworth. Dec. 13, 1737, the parish of Summersworth voted to
hire him to keep school one year, and also sweep the meeting-house. The
_New Hampshire Gazette_ says he lived in Summersworth when his son John
was born in 1740. His wife Margery says their home was in Summersworth
when she advertised for him to come home in 1743. Capt. Thomas
Wallingford says he was a citizen of Summersworth in 1746. And last, but
not least, Michael Reade told Dr. Quint the boys were all born in
Summersworth.

On the other hand, there is nothing in the Berwick records, parish or
town, which even mentions Master Sullivan before 1753. Aug. 12 of that
year he bought his farm in Berwick of Samuel Lord; and after that his
name frequently appears.

Master Sullivan and his wife Margery were a remarkable couple. They are
two of the interesting characters in Sarah Orne Jewett’s story, _The
Tory Lover_, recently published, which, of course, you have all read, or
will read.

Master Sullivan was born in Limerick, Ireland, in 1691, during the siege
of the city by King William’s forces. His wife, Margery Browne, was born
in Cork, Ireland, in 1714. In 1723 they both set sail from Limerick in
the same ship for New England. The captain intended to land at
Newburyport, but owing to stress of weather he was compelled to land at
York Harbor, Me. In his old age, when he and his wife were calling at a
neighbor’s, they got to talking about his younger days, and he told the
following story, which was recorded by the person who heard it. Master
Sullivan said, in the presence of his wife:

  I sailed from Limerick, Ireland, for New England in 1723; owing to
  stress of weather the vessel was obliged to land at York, Maine. On
  the voyage my attention was called to a pretty girl of nine or ten
  years, Margery Browne, who afterwards became my wife. As my mother
  had absolutely refused to furnish me the means for paying
  transportation, and I had not means otherwise, I was obliged to
  enter into an agreement with the captain to earn the money for my
  passage.

  After I landed at York, for a while I lived on the McIntire farm in
  Scotland parish. Unaccustomed to farm labor, and growing weary of
  manual occupation, I applied to Rev. Dr. Moody, pastor of the
  parish, for assistance. I made my application in a letter written in
  seven languages, so that he might see I was a scholar. He became
  interested in my behalf, and being conversant with my ability to
  teach he loaned me the money with which to pay the captain the
  amount I owed for my passage. Thus set free from the McIntires, I
  was assisted to open a school and earn money to repay Dr. Moody.

Later in life, when he was past fourscore years old, he made another
statement in regard to himself, at the request of his daughter-in-law,
wife of General Sullivan. He wrote it with his own hand and gave it to
the general’s wife. She gave it to her daughter, wife of Judge Steele;
from Mrs. Steele it passed to her son and grandson; by the latter it was
given to Thomas Coffin Amory, who published it in his biography of Gov.
James Sullivan. It is as follows:

  I am the son of Major Philip O’Sullivan of Ardea, in county of
  Kerry, Ireland. His father was Owen O’Sullivan, original descendant
  from the second son of Daniel O’Sullivan, called lord of Bearehaven.
  His father married Mary, daughter of Col. Owen McSweeney of Musgrey,
  and sister of Capt. Edmund McSweeney, a man noted for his anecdotes
  and witty sayings.

  I have heard that my grandfather had four countesses for his mother
  and grandmothers. How true this is, or who they were, I know not. My
  father died of an ulcer raised in his breast, occasioned by a wound
  he received in France in a duel with a French officer. My ancestors
  were short lived; they either died in their bloom or went out of the
  country. I never heard that any of the mankind arrived at sixty, and
  I do not remember but one alive when I left home.

  My mother’s name was Joan McCarthy, daughter of Dermod McCarthy of
  Killoween. She had three brothers and one sister. Her mother’s name
  I forget, but she was daughter of McCarthy Reagh of Carbery. Her
  oldest brother, Col. Florence, alias McFinnen, and his two brothers,
  Capt. Charles and Capt. Owen, went in defense of the nation against
  Orange. Owen was killed in a battle at Aughrim. Florence had a son,
  who retains the title of McFinnen. I can just remember Charles. He
  had a charge in his face at the siege of Cork. He left two sons,
  Derby[12] and Owen. Derby married with Ellena O’Sullivan of the
  Sullivans of Banane. His brother married Honora Mahoney of Dromore.
  My mother’s sister was married to Dermod, eldest son of Daniel
  O’Sullivan, lord of Dunkerron. Her son Cornelius, as I understand,
  was with the Pretender (Charles Edward) in Scotland in 1745.

  This is all that I can say about my origin, but shall conclude with
  a Latin sentence:

         Si Adam sit pater cunctorum, mater et Eva;
         Cur non sunt homines nobilitate pares?
         Non pater aut mater dant nobis nobilitatem,
         Sed moribus et vita nobilitatur homo.

                                                         J. S.

All this condensed into a paragraph is that in Master Sullivan’s veins
flowed the blood of the Norman Butlers and Fitzgeralds who went over
from England to Ireland, when the Irish were first conquered by the
English, and in time they became more Irish than the original race; that
is, they fought the English government more fiercely than the Irish
themselves did. Master Sullivan’s sons won in America what many
generations of their brave ancestors had failed to win in Ireland.

As has already been stated, Master Sullivan was born in Limerick during
the siege in 1691. Limerick, however, was not captured; a truce took
place, and a treaty was formed. This treaty did not last long, and a
large number of Irish were compelled to take refuge in France. Among
these were Maj. Philip O’Sullivan and his family.

This family remained in France several years. Major Sullivan died there,
as has been stated; his wife and children remained till peace reigned in
Ireland to the extent that she was allowed to return and take possession
of her large estates. While in France she carefully educated her son
John, and, unwittingly, prepared him to be the future schoolmaster of
New Hampshire. It was there that Master Sullivan learned his French so
thoroughly that when he was past ninety years of age he wrote a letter
in excellent French to his son, the general.

When his mother returned to Ireland her son was a young man, and I
suppose passed his time as other young Irishmen did who were in the
front rank of society in the city of Limerick. At length a difference of
opinion arose between Madam O’Sullivan and her son; he fell in love with
a young woman, who probably could not tell who her grandmother was. This
displeased his mother very much. Madam was very haughty and
aristocratic; she was proud of her ancestry and of her son’s ancestry.
She could not endure the thought of his marrying a girl of low ancestry;
she opposed the match.

I suppose that made Master Sullivan’s love burn more fiercely. After the
affair had drifted along quite a while Madam forbid her son,
peremptorily, to have anything more to do with the girl, and gave him
two weeks in which to break the engagement; if he did not do it inside
of that time, she would disinherit him. Per contra, Master Sullivan told
his mother he would give _her_ two weeks in which to consent to the
marriage; if she did not consent inside of that time, he would leave
Ireland forever, and neither she or the girl should ever hear more of
him. They were both of the same grit; neither would yield, and the
result was he sailed for America and in due time landed in York, Me. But
the thought of that girl he had left behind him in Ireland haunted him
for many years, and it was not till he was forty-four years old that he
again entertained the thought of marriage. His mother afterwards
repented of her stern act and made search for years for her runaway son,
but she never found any trace of him.

Hamlet says in the great drama that bears his name:

                                   “Rashly,
         And praised be rashness for it, let us know
         Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
         When our deep plots do pall; and that should teach us
         There’s a divinity that shapes our ends,
         Rough hew them how we will.”

Suppose Master Sullivan had obeyed his mother’s wishes and remained in
Ireland, or suppose Providence had not concealed him from his mother’s
search after she repented of her rash act, and he had been found and
induced to return to Ireland, what a difference there would have been in
the management of affairs and the history of New Hampshire.

Margery Browne was born in Cork, Ireland, in 1714; she died in Berwick,
Me., in 1801. Nothing is known of her ancestry, but the name is
essentially English, hence we may conclude that her parents, or their
ancestors, crossed over from England and settled in Ireland. She came to
this country in the same ship with Master Sullivan; she was nine years
old and he was thirty-two; they never had met before boarding the ship.
Why a girl of nine years should start on such a voyage alone is a
mystery that will never be solved.

Her parents may have started with her and died on the way, or she may
have taken a freak and stowed herself away among the freight and kept
concealed till the ship was well at sea. Whatever may have been the
cause of departure, she had no money to pay her passage, so the captain
had to sell her service at auction in Portsmouth to get his pay. The
tradition is that she was so young and so small that nobody would bid
for her services. At last Master Sullivan consented to raise the sum the
captain wanted for her passage. It is said that he finally paid it in
shingles, which he cut himself in the forest and carried to Portsmouth
in a boat.

It is not known where she spent the twelve years from 1723 to 1735, but
probably in York, as a house girl on some farm. Master Sullivan does not
appear to have taken any interest in her till a short time previous to
their marriage, when he heard that the young men of York were falling in
love with her and one had gone so far as to propose. He went over from
Somersworth to York to see about it. He found a keen-witted, handsome
and attractive young woman; the thought of the girl he had left in
Ireland twelve years ago began to fade from his mind. She was equally
impressed with his fine appearance; the result was she told the other
young men they need not call any more. Master Sullivan and Margery
Browne were married soon after.

She is described by those who saw her in the prime of womanhood as short
of stature, beautiful in form, face and manners. She was a great worker,
quick tempered, and quick to repent of what she did wrong in her
madness. Her tongue was equal to her temper. If tradition can be relied
on, she could have given Xantippe several points to start with and then
have won easily in a scolding match, although Socrates’ wife has the
standard reputation of being the greatest scold the human race has yet
produced. Margery Sullivan did not scold all the time; it happened
occasionally, like volcanic eruption, when she could not hold in any
longer.

Governor Samuel Wells of Maine wrote to a friend as follows about his
great-grandmother:

  Master Sullivan’s wife was as well known as he was, and when
  reference was made to her distinguished sons _she_ was more
  frequently alluded to. She has been uniformly represented as a woman
  of considerable native strength of mind, yet entirely uncultivated,
  having the strong passions common to her country women, of which
  some are good and some are bad, wholly unsubdued by habit. These
  marked traits of character show a wider contrast between her and her
  two distinguished sons than between them and their father, and
  furnish a theme for remark, with anecdotes not a few, brought up
  whenever allusion was made to the family. That she was a masculine,
  energetic woman, with the resolution of a man, there is no doubt.
  That she performed out-door labor in the field, suitable only to
  men, in order that her husband might not be diverted from his
  occupation of teaching, was recently told me as coming from herself,
  in the presence of my informant, one of the few who now (1855)
  survive to remember her.

Attorney-General John Sullivan of Exeter gave the following description
of his great-grandfather, Master Sullivan. He says:

  I have been told he was a tall, spare man, very mild and gentle,
  thoughtful and studious, an excellent scholar, but averse to bodily
  exercise. He was exclusively a teacher.

  An aged lady, who remembered seeing him when he was more than a
  century old, told me her recollection of him, as she saw him at his
  house one day, was that of a tall, venerable old man in a dressing
  gown, seated at a table reading a Bible; he wore his hair long on
  his shoulders.

From what his great-grandson says, and from what I gather from other
sources, I draw the conclusion that Master Sullivan was a tall,
fine-looking man, who had a lofty and fine spirit. He had an excellent
education in his youth, which he enlarged and improved in his later
years, making him one of the best scholars in New England in the
eighteenth century. He evidently was not satisfied with his lot in life,
but never complained. The magnificent success of his sons was the source
of great pleasure to him in his old age. He probably was the teacher of
more men who took a distinguished part in the Revolution than any other
one teacher in New England, and in that way he exercised a powerful
influence in shaping the turn of events in that great contest.

Master Sullivan died the first of June, 1796, aged 105 years; his
remains were interred in a field on the hillside, about 50 rods from
where his house stood in Berwick. His wife died in 1801, and was
interred at the same spot. Soon after his death, Gov. James Sullivan had
a stone, with suitable inscription, erected there; some years later
their great-grandson, Governor Wells of Maine, had the spot enclosed
with a substantial iron fence. Thus it remained till October, 1877, when
Mr. Ricker, the present owner of the land, got permission to remove the
remains to the Sullivan cemetery in Durham, as he wanted to run a new
street through his land directly over the grave.

The head of the old grave is now marked by a cherry tree, which stands
by the sidewalk. When Mr. Ricker and Mr. Stillings, who lives near
there, opened the grave, they found the skull perfect, also the hair and
some of the large bones of Master Sullivan; over the forehead a root of
the cherry tree had grown so that it half encircled the skull, and had
to be cut before the bones could be removed. The skull was very large,
with a high forehead, and the hair was long and perfect, being a dark
brown mixed with slight sprinkle of gray. The remains had been interred
there 81 years.

When Master Sullivan died, some one, presumably his pastor, Rev. Matthew
Merriam, wrote an obituary of him, which was published in a Portsmouth
paper, _The Oracle of the Day_. His death occurred on Saturday, June 3,
1796, and the article is in the publication of the week following.

The article is quite long, hence I will give only the substance of it
here. The writer says he was extraordinary in his acquirements as a
student, his brilliancy of mind, his power as a teacher, and in his
influence over the community in which he lived. He taught school till he
was 90 years old and then retired, lamenting he could no longer be
useful to his fellow-men. He still continued his studies, reading his
Bible, his Homer, and his Horace with as keen a relish as he did a half
century before. He wrote a good hand till he was 102 years old; he
continued his reading till he was 104, when his eyesight failed, but his
mental powers remained perfect till seven days before his death, when
his speech failed, but he seemed to understand what was said to him till
the last hour; when he closed his eyes as in sleep, and his noble soul
took its flight.

His health had been remarkably good throughout his long life of more
than a century; he was a stranger to pain till a few months before
death, when he became subject to cramps and nervous troubles which
caused him great distress.

He was active in out-of-door exercise after he had passed the century
mark; he would yoke and unyoke his oxen, drive them to the blacksmith
shop and get them shod, and work them about the farm; he was able to cut
wood for his household fires, and do _chores_ of various sort.

Thus Master Sullivan appeared to his pastor, who had known him for forty
years and more. Thus I deposit in the archives of the New Hampshire
Historical Society my pen picture of New Hampshire’s grandest old
schoolmaster.




        MARTIN MURPHY, SR., AN IRISH PIONEER OF CALIFORNIA.[13]

                    BY MISS MARCELLA A. FITZGERALD.

            Pioneer! name that like a Conjurer summons
            All the past before our eyes,
            Toils, struggles, want and hardships,
            Perils, dangers, sacrifice.

                                        —_Annie Fitzgerald._


Martin Murphy, Sr., is held in loving reverence as an early pioneer of
California. A native of Ireland, nurtured on Wexford’s historic soil, he
imbibed a love for his native land which was as the breath of his life.
Her joys, her sorrows, her glories, were his.

In his boyhood he witnessed the gallant struggle of “’98,” when kindred
and friends perished in the vain effort to cast off the English yoke,
and beheld the cruel persecution and bloodshed that followed the
suppression of the Rebellion, scenes which left their impression
indelibly impressed upon his heart. No distance could alienate him from,
no pleasure cause him to forget, the “Niobe of Nations.”

Years afterwards, when a dweller on the Pacific Coast, at a time when
intercourse with the outer world was difficult, and mails scarce more
than semi-annual, a tourist who shared the hospitality of his home wrote
thus:

Eager to hear news of Ireland, he listened as I told him the sad story
of famine and death which had desolated his native land; tear-dimmed
eyes and quivering lips told his deep emotion. When I ceased, the
venerable patriarch bowed his head, murmuring, “O my unhappy Country!
will your suffering and sorrow never end.”

But if he loved Ireland much, he loved freedom with the devotion of his
race, and longed for a clime where right, not might, held sway. The
Canadian colonies offered an opportunity to settlers of obtaining homes
by purchase, homes free from the tyranny of a landlord’s whim, and
thither Mr. Murphy resolved to emigrate. Disposing of his leasehold,
whose tenure extended for the term of his life, he embarked for the New
World, reaching Quebec in 1820.

He purchased land in the township of Frampton, 30 miles from the quaint
old city which has since given its name to the province. “It was the
forest primeval,” but he bravely set to work at the labor incidental to
the building up of a home in the northern wilderness, the clearing of
the land of its dense growth of timber before the plow could penetrate
its rich virgin soil.

The long, cold winters with their mountainous snowdrifts and cutting
blasts, and the countless inconveniences of frontier life to which he
and his gentle wife were so unaccustomed, were borne with cheerful
Christian patience. Soon many of his old friends and neighbors joined
him, and a thriving Irish settlement grew up around him. His home was
the center to which all new comers self-exiled from Erin turned while
seeking a haven for themselves. There they found the whole-souled
welcome of truly hospitable hearts, and kindly care when overtaken by
sickness.

Prior to the erection of a church and the formation of a parish, zealous
priests at his request visited the settlement to celebrate Mass,
administer the sacraments and instruct the children, thus keeping aglow
the light of Faith in the hearts of the exiles.

But the desire for more perfect freedom remained in Mr. Murphy’s heart,
and although past the golden milestone of life he prepared to seek a new
country. In 1840 he bade farewell to his friends, and taking with him
his wife and his unmarried children, set out upon his westward journey
to Missouri. He made his home in Holt County, then known as the Platte
Purchase, since divided into Holt and Atchison counties.

There he was joined later by his sons Martin and James with their
families, and his daughter Mary, Mrs. James Miller, with her husband and
babes. His eldest daughter, Margaret, Mrs. Thomas Kell, with her husband
and family, came subsequently from Upper Canada, whither they had
emigrated in 1838.

Many of those who had cast their lot with him in Canada followed him to
Missouri, and formed the prosperous settlement known as Irish Grove.
Among these were the Sullivans, Enrights, Corcorans, Jordans, Walshes
and Whites, names since familiar as pioneers of California.

The soil was fertile, the climate mild and pleasant, but unfortunately
the malarial fevers common to the Mississippi and its tributaries
prevailed, and the colonists suffered much from sickness. Mrs. Murphy
succumbed to the dread disease, and on June 9, 1841, yielded her pure
soul to the hands of her Creator. A model wife, a loving mother, a
devoted friend, an ideal Christian woman, pious and charitable in word
and deed, of her it may be truly said:

                     None knew her but to love her,
                     None named her but to praise.

A Catholic missionary who visited the colony told Mr. Murphy of
California, a land of health, where almost endless summer reigned, under
whose cloudless skies fertile valleys smiled unfurrowed by the plow, and
thither he resolved to direct his course.

Disposing of his lands, he procured the outfit required for such a long
and dangerous journey, and bearing with him a passport from Governor
Reynolds of Missouri, assuring him and his the protection due American
citizens, he once more turned his face toward the setting sun.

The party of devoted pilgrims started on their westward course May 6,
1844, reaching California in November of the same year. The names of the
members of the company are given as follows:

 Martin Murphy, Sr.
 Miss Helen Murphy.
 Bernard Murphy.
 John Marion Murphy.
 Daniel Murphy.
 Martin Murphy, Jr., wife and four children.
 James Murphy, wife and one child.
 James Miller, wife and four children.
 John Sullivan.
 Miss Mary Sullivan.
 Michael Sullivan.
 Robert Sullivan.
 Dr. Townsend and wife.
 Moses Shallenberger.
 Allen N. Montgomery and wife.
 Joseph Batton.
 John Luffumbo.
 Vincent Calvin.
 John R. Jackson.
 J. E. Foster.
 Edward Bray.
 David Strickien.
 William Bragg.
 Vincent Snelling.
 Daniel Snelling.
 John Thorp.
 Fielden M. Thorp.
 Elvan A. Thorp.
 David Johnson.
 William Case.
 Daniel R. Kinsey.
 Joshua Shaw.
 A. C. R. Shaw.
 Thomas M. Vance.
 Jacob Hammer.
 William Clemmons.
 John Eldridge.
 Ben. Q. Tucker.
 John Owen.
 Harmon Higgins.
 William Higgins.
 William Prattier.
 Theodore Prattier.
 Britain Greenwood.
 Caleb Greenwood.
 John Greenwood.
 William Martin.
 Patrick Martin.
 Dennis Martin.
 Matthias Harbin.
 Daniel Durbin.
 Mr. Hitchcock and family.
 Mrs. Patterson and family.
 Oliver Magnent.
 Francis Magnent, and
 Captain Stephens, who had command of the expedition.

“Captain Stephens was a native of North Carolina, reared in Georgia, a
trapper for 28 years, and was accustomed to frontier life. He had no
trail to guide him across the plains and started without even a pocket
compass, but no train that traversed the continent to the Pacific was
more blessed, freer from disaster, or so safe from savage attacks.”

The toils and dangers of the way have been told so often that it is
needless to repeat them here. That they were many we know; deep rivers
had to be forded, roads made through almost impassable mountain
fastnesses, vigilant watch kept to protect the train and its belongings
from prowling savages and predatory animals.

At Fort Hall, the train separated, those whose destination was the
Northwest taking the Oregon trail; Mr. Murphy, his family and friends
continuing to California. The difficulties of the route were augmented
by the lateness of the season. Snow had fallen when they reached the
Yuba, and further progress with wagons was impossible. Cabins for the
accommodation of the families were erected, and there a number of the
emigrants remained until March, 1845. Among those who wintered there
were James Miller and family and Martin Murphy, Jr., and family.

Mr. Murphy, his daughter Helen, his sons Daniel, John M., Bernard D.,
James, the latter’s wife and child, Dr. Townsend and wife, with others
of the party, proceeded on horseback to Sutter’s Fort, where they were
hospitably received by that grand old pioneer, J. A. Sutter.

When Mr. Murphy reached California he found the country in a state of
rebellion. “The native Californians had revolted against Mexican rule,
seized the government arms and ammunition stored at the Mission of San
Juan Bautista and marched upon the capital. The Mexican military force
in the country was small and Governor Micheltorena, fearing defeat,
called for aid upon John A. Sutter, who had been a foreign resident in
the country since 1839. Sutter responded, and with one hundred mounted
men, mostly foreigners, hastened to the rescue.”

Mr. Murphy and his sons were of the number who journeyed southward,
“making haste slowly” ’neath winter’s sun and showers through the
fairest land on which the light of Heaven shone. They reached Los
Angeles late in January or early in February, 1845. After the battle of
Chauvenga and the overthrow of the Mexican administration, Mr. Murphy
and his sons returned to Santa Clara valley. Here he found the glorious
realization of his hopes in a soil of rare fertility and a climate
equable and healthy, and here he made his home.

He purchased the Rancho Ojo de Agua de la Coche, Rancho San Francisco de
las Llagas, Rancho de las Uvas, that portion of the San Ysidro ranch now
known as Ba Polka, and one-sixteenth of the Rancho de Las Animas, a
stretch of country extending from mountain top to mountain top east and
west, and from the vicinity of Madrone station in the North to the
present town of Gilroy in the South.

His home at the Ojo de Agua de la Coche was well known by all who
traveled the Camina Real from Monterey to San Francisco, and its
generous hospitality was shared by the distinguished men of all nations
which held the balance of power during the formative period of our
state’s existence, and who with decisive energy moulded its chaotic
elements into the perfect whole which has made California the wonder of
an admiring world.

Clergymen, distinguished soldiers, grave statesmen, and authors whose
names are honored, loved to linger there. Bayard Taylor describing a
ride made in company with Mr. Murphy to the summit of El Toro, the lofty
peak near his home, draws a vivid picture of the wondrous beauty of hill
and valley in his exquisite word painting.

In 1850, Helen Murphy became the wife of Capt. Charles W. Weber of
Stockton, John M. Murphy married Virginia E. Backenstoe Reed, and in
1851 Daniel wedded Mary C. Fisher. In this year also Bernard, having
revisited Canada, there married Catherine O’Toole. On his return to
California he was accompanied by his sister, Mrs. Johanna Fitzgerald,
who with her children came at her father’s request to share his loving
care, she being recently widowed. Mrs. Kell had reached the Pacific in
1846, and the family were again citizens of one land.

April 11, 1853, Bernard, while en route to San Francisco, was killed by
the explosion of the boiler of the steamer _Jenny Lind_, plying between
Alviso and the city. With him was his nephew, Thomas Kell, who shared
his sad fate.

In 1854, Mr. Murphy erected a commodious chapel on the San Martin ranch,
that the Catholic families settled in the neighborhood might enjoy the
consolation of religious instruction. It was visited monthly by the
pastor of St. Joseph’s Church, San José, until 1856, when it was placed
in charge of the pastor of San Juan Bautista, the Rev. Francis Mora, who
later became bishop of Monterey and Los Angeles. In 1864, a resident
pastor, Rev. Thomas Hudson, was appointed and a church erected in the
town of Gilroy. St. Martin’s chapel was destroyed by an incendiary fire
April 2, 1879.

To the last, Mr. Murphy never faltered in the performance of life’s
daily duties. He personally attended to business, and his real estate in
city and country benefitted by his immediate supervision. He saw to the
details of the wearying lawsuits entailed in the quieting of land
titles, making long journeys to distant parts of the state, paying with
scrupulous exactness every claim, lest the shadow of wrong might rest
upon him.

Notwithstanding his advanced age he never failed to keep the fast of
Lent, and his charity to the poor was bounded only by his ability to
help them. Food and shelter were never refused an applicant. He was his
own almoner and broke his bread with the needy and the orphan. He shrank
from public applause and press notoriety, and loved the quiet of
peaceful country surroundings. His life in word and deed inculcated
strict obedience to the commands of God, and a faithful compliance with
the laws of the land.

On March 16, 1865, Mr. Murphy laid down the burden of life. He went
peacefully to rest, “like one who wraps the drapery of his couch about
him and lies down to pleasant dreams.” Supported by the consolations of
religion, surrounded by his children, the venerable pioneer passed away,
sincerely mourned by all. I quote here a few lines taken from the
tribute to his memory offered by F. B. Murdock, a pioneer editor of
California:

  We have known Mr. Murphy personally and well for the last twelve
  years. He seemed to enjoy as good health, and look as young a few
  weeks before his death as when we first saw him twelve years ago. He
  was in many respects a remarkable man. He was always gentlemanly,
  always kind and considerate, with a countenance singularly mixed
  with an expression of gravity, gentleness and cheerfulness. We don’t
  think he had an enemy, we never heard of one; we never heard any one
  speak of him except in terms of high respect. Truthfulness,
  conscientiousness and natural goodness, in its broad sense charity,
  were prominent marks in his character. We never heard Martin Murphy,
  Sr., say an unkind word of a single being, living or dead—we have
  often heard him utter a word of excuse or apology, something to
  extenuate when others were condemning. Certainly that was a most
  beautiful Christian trait in his character, and it is not to be
  wondered at that such a man should live beloved and respected and
  die regretted.

These sentiments voiced the feelings of the immense concourse that
attended the solemn funeral rites at St. Joseph’s church, San José,
heard the eloquent eulogy of the deceased pronounced by Rev. Father
Kenny, S. J., and followed Mr. Murphy’s remains to their last resting
place in the Catholic graveyard in Santa Clara.

As a token of respect for Mr. Murphy, and that all who desired might
attend the funeral, the County Court adjourned immediately upon opening
on the 18th.

Realizing the wide influence of Mr. Murphy’s long years of gentle
unostentatious virtue, it is not too much to say in closing this brief
notice of his life, that “the world is better because he lived.”

Mr. Murphy married early in life. His wife was Mary Foley, daughter of
Daniel Foley of Enniscorthy, Ireland. Of Mr. and Mrs. Murphy’s children,
Martin, James, Margaret, Johanna, Mary and Bernard were born in Ireland,
Helen, John M. and Daniel in Canada.

Martin married Mary Bulger; died Oct. 20, 1884.

James married Anne Martin; died Jan. 14, 1888.

Margaret married Thomas Kell; died Dec. 30, 1881.

Johanna married Patrick Fitzgerald; died Dec. 28, 1899.

Mary married James Miller; died Dec. 26, 1883.

Bernard married Catherine O’Toole; died April 11, 1853.

Helen married C. M. Weber; died April 11, 1895.

John M. married V. E. B. Reed; died Feb. 17, 1892.

Daniel married Mary C. Fisher; died Oct. 22, 1882.




                     HISTORICAL NOTES OF INTEREST.

                       BY THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY.


James Bourk, “captain of the brig _Neptune_,” is mentioned at Newport,
R. I., 1773.

William Welch, “from Ireland,” settled in Charlestown, R. I. He was born
in 1700 and died in 1786.

Richard Field, “a native of Dublin, Ireland,” was long a resident of
Newport, R. I., and died in 1769.

Thomas McCartee of Hartford, Conn., is mentioned in the “Lexington
Alarm” list of that place, 1775.

An Irishman, John Fitton, settled in Providence, R. I., about 1750. He
was a merchant. He died in 1810.

Daniel Byrn was lieutenant in a regiment (1759) raised by act of the
General Assembly of Rhode Island.

The records of Nantucket, Mass., contain the following entry: “Betty y^e
dau. of Denis Manning was born July y^e 10, 1679.”

James Dailey is mentioned in the Revolutionary records as of the corps
of Sappers and Miners; was at the siege of Yorktown.

The Chevalier Theobald Dillon was “colonel en second” of the
Irish-French regiment of Dillon during the American Revolution.

Stephen Brady was of Col. Obadiah Johnson’s Connecticut regiment, 1778.
The regiment participated in the battle of Rhode Island.

Constant Maguire “of County Fermanagh,” Ireland, settled in Rhode Island
prior to 1750, and became prominent in Warwick and East Greenwich.

In 1751–’52, Terence Donnelly was engaged by the town of Newport, R. I.,
as a schoolmaster. He later conducted a school of his own in that place.

The ship _Sally_ arrived at Boston, Mass., in 1763, having been
fifty-nine days on the voyage from Ireland. She was quarantined at
Boston for smallpox.

A privateer captain in the Revolution was William Malone. He is believed
to have been of Newport, R. I. He commanded at one period _The
Harbinger_.

John Conley of Stratford, Conn., served in the second troop of Sheldon’s
Continental Light Dragoons during the Revolution and is mentioned as a
trumpeter.

John Flynn of Woodstock, Conn., is mentioned in the Woodstock “Alarm
List,” 1775. He is also mentioned as a trumpeter in Major Backus’ Light
Horse, 1776.

Owen Neill of New London, Conn., sustained losses aggregating £91, 14s
6d by the ravages of the British at the time of the latter’s attack on
New London, 1781.

Bridget Clifford came from Ireland, 1635, in the _Primrose_ bound for
Virginia. She was accompanied by two of her brothers. She died at
Suffield, Conn., in 1695.

Peter Welsh was adjutant during the Revolution of Col. Frederick
Weissenfels’ New York regiment of levies. He is also mentioned as
quartermaster of the regiment.

Thomas Fitzgerald was a midshipman during the Revolution on the
Continental frigate _Trumbull_. The latter was built in Connecticut
under the authority of Congress.

Patrick Canny, a soldier of the Revolution, was serving at Horseneck,
Conn., in 1782–’83. He is mentioned in Stiles’ _History and Genealogies
of Ancient Windsor, Conn._

Philip Mullen was fire master of Albany, N. Y., in 1755, and Philip
Ryley was in charge of the town clock. (Hon. Franklin M. Danaher in
_Early Irish in Old Albany, N. Y._)

John McGinnis was a New York soldier of the Revolution. He served at one
period in Bradt’s Rangers. Also in this corps were Edward Early, Richard
Kain and Barney Kelley.

Luke Burns, a cordwainer, resided in Providence, R. I., and died in
1788. Jonathan Green, “living near the Mill-Bridge in Providence,” was
appointed administrator of the estate.

Bryant O’Dougherty was in Salem, Mass., in 1683. At that period there
were many Irish in Salem. (Eben Putnam in “Historical and Genealogical
Notes and Queries,” _Salem Observer_.)

James Kasson, with his father and six brothers, came from Ireland in
1722 and landed at Boston, Mass. He later settled in Voluntown, Conn.,
removing to Woodbury, Conn., in 1742.

Armand O’Connor was one of the “capitaines en second” of the
Irish-French regiment of Walsh during the American Revolution. He is
referred to as the Chevalier Armand O’Connor.

Henry Paget, “an Irish gentleman much respected,” was admitted a freeman
of Rhode Island, 1742. He wedded a daughter of Rev. John Checkley,
rector of a church in Providence, R. I.

Thomas Ryan is mentioned in the Connecticut Revolutionary records as a
drummer in Captain Brewster’s company, Colonel Huntington’s regiment
(Seventeenth Continental), 1776.

A Rhode Island merchantman, the _Abby_, Capt. John Donovan, was attacked
in August, 1752, by a French warship. Captain Donovan met the attack in
a spirited manner but was killed.

Maj. Matthew Donovan of the Ninth Virginia regiment during the
Revolution died in the service, 1777. The state of Virginia allowed his
heirs 6,893 acres. (See mention in Saffell.)

Abbe Dowd, “Irlandais,” was a chaplain of the French warship _Le Jason_
in the American Revolution. _Le Jason_ was of the fleet of Count De
Ternay, which was assisting the American cause.

In the Massachusetts force that rendezvoused on “Dedham Plain,” for the
Narragansett campaign, 1675, was a soldier named Jeremiah Neal. He is
mentioned as a sergeant of the sixth company.

Lieut. Hugh McManus and Lieut. John Riley served in the Sixth Regiment,
Albany County, N. Y., Militia, during the Revolution. The regiment was
commanded by Col. Stephen John Schuyler.

The Connecticut Revolutionary records mention Michael McGee, a soldier
who served in Colonel Burrall’s regiment of that state. McGee was taken
prisoner in “the affair at the Cedars,” 1776.

Over fifteen members of Capt. John Giles’ company, 1723–’24, were
natives of Ireland. The company was engaged operating against the
Indians in Maine, and is mentioned in the Massachusetts records.

Tench Francis, son of an Irishman, was born in Maryland, 1732; became
attorney-general of the province of Pennsylvania; was captain of the
Quaker Blues; subscribed £5,500 in aid of the Patriot army.

David Dowd, soldier of the Revolution, served in a Connecticut light
infantry company, under Lafayette, February-November, 1781. The company
was commanded by Capt. Samuel Barker of Branford, Conn.

A settler at Sudbury, Mass., Richard Burke, came from Ireland prior to
1650. He married in 1670 and left many descendants. He was one of the
earliest Burkes to settle in America of whom we have record.

An early resident of Newport, R. I., was Owen Higgins. His wife was born
in 1640. In 1701, his son Richard is recorded as a freeman of Newport.
(See Austin’s _Genealogical Dictionary of Rhode Island_.)

Five ships arrived in Boston Harbor, Aug. 4, 1718, with Irish immigrants
aboard. Many of these subsequently settled in New Hampshire. These facts
are referred to in Cullen’s _Story of the Irish in Boston_.

Daniel Sullivan, born in Ireland, 1717, died in Providence, R. I., 1814.
In an obituary notice it is stated that “He had long resided in this
town where his integrity and piety secured him confidence and esteem.”

Charles McAfferty, “an Irishman,” was a soldier of the Revolution and
served in Col. Jeremiah Olney’s Rhode Island Continentals. He was one of
the first to enter the enemy’s redoubts at the capture of Yorktown.

Patrick McSherry was an officer in the Irish-French regiment of Dillon
during the American Revolution. He is mentioned in that recent work,
_Les Combattants Francais De La Guerre Americaine_ (Paris, 1903).

James Buchanan, a native of County Donegal, Ireland, came to this
country in the brig _Providence_, 1783. He was then in his twenty-second
year. His son, James, became president of the United States.

Two members of the Commander-in-Chief’s Guard (Washington’s), in the
Revolution, were James and Robert Blair, both natives of Ireland.
Godfrey’s history of the guard furnishes a biographical sketch of each.

“In the discharge of his duty he has at all times proved himself an
alert, brave and intelligent officer.” The foregoing tribute was paid by
Gen. Henry Knox to Lieut. Florence Crowley, a soldier of the Revolution.

Jacques O’Driscoll was one of the “capitaines en second” in the
Irish-French regiment of Walsh during the American Revolution. Others of
the same rank in the command were Edouard Stack and Charles O’Croly.

Hon. James Sullivan was governor of Massachusetts in 1807 and 1808. He
succeeded Hon. Caleb Strong and preceded Hon. Christopher Gore. Governor
Sullivan was a brother of Gen. John Sullivan of the Revolution.

Ten ships, bringing nearly one thousand passengers, arrived at Boston,
Mass., from Ireland, during the two years, 1736 and 1738. It was at this
period, 1737, that the Charitable Irish Society of Boston was organized.

Thomas Quirk, “a brave and fine-looking Irishman,” served under Gen.
George Rogers Clark in the latter’s western campaign. He had been a
sergeant and is later mentioned as a major. He was alloted 4,312 acres.

Robert Beers, an Irishman, was slain “y^e 28 March 1676,” by the
Indians. The tragedy occurred at “the ring of the town,” within the
limits of what is now East Providence, R. I. Beers was a brickmaker by
occupation.

A distinguished officer of the Revolution, Edward Hand, was born in
Kings County, Ireland. He came to America in 1767; espoused the Patriot
cause, and was successively lieutenant-colonel, colonel, and
brigadier-general.

The first funds of Rhode Island College, now Brown University, were
obtained in Ireland. The original subscription book is still carefully
preserved. (Guild’s work on _The First Commencement of Rhode Island
College_.)

In 1774 the Second Company, Governor’s Foot Guard, of New Haven, Conn.,
engaged Edward Burke as instructor “in the military exercise.” The
company is one of the oldest existing military organizations in America.

Gov. Thomas Dongan of New York, an Irish Catholic, visited Milford,
Conn., in 1685, to confer with Governor Treat regarding the boundary
between the two colonies. Governor Treat terms Dongan “A noble
gentleman.”

Stephen Decatur, a Genoese Catholic, arrived in Newport, R. I., about
1740–’46; married a woman of Irish lineage; became captain of a
privateer. His son, also named Stephen, attained high rank in the United
States navy.

Thomas Casey was born in Ireland about 1636. He became a resident of
Newport, R. I. In 1692 he and his son Thomas witnessed a deed given by
James Sweet of East Greenwich, R. I., to Thomas Weaver of Newport.

Jean Baptiste O’Meara was one of the “lieutenants en second” of the
Irish-French regiment of Walsh in the American Revolution. Holding like
rank in the regiment were Jacques O’Sheil, George Meighan and Eugene
MacCarthy.

On the roster of the British garrison at Albany, N. Y., when the place
was reconquered from the Dutch and held for a short time in 1673, appear
the names Capt. John Manning, Patrick Dowdell, John Fitzgerald and
Thomas Quinn.

Matthew O’Bryan was a Massachusetts soldier of the Revolution. He served
in Col. John Crane’s regiment of artillery. In one return he is credited
with service for 21 months and 25 days as bombardier and 12 months as
matross.

Jane Brown was born in Providence, R. I., 1734. Her father, Rev. Arthur
Brown, was a native of Drogheda, Ireland. She married Samuel Livermore,
who became attorney-general of New Hampshire and United States senator.

Thomas Amory emigrated from Limerick, Ireland, to South Carolina. He
removed from the latter place to Boston, Mass., in 1721. The late Thomas
C. Amory of Boston, author of the _Transfer of Erin_, was one of his
descendants.

Mrs. Grant in her _Memoirs of an American Lady_ mentions “A handsome,
good-natured looking Irishman in a ragged provincial uniform,” named
Patrick Coonie, with his wife and children, who settled near Albany, N.
Y., in 1768.

Matthew Mease, who was born in Strabane, Ireland, became purser of the
_Bonhomme Richard_ and served under John Paul Jones in the engagement
with the British 44–gun ship _Serapis_. Mease was wounded in that
engagement.

In 1768, Patrick Mackey, mentioned as from Philadelphia, Pa., opened in
Providence, R. I., “a skinner’s shop near the Hay-ward, on the east side
of the great bridge.” He dealt in deer leather, in wool, and in goat and
sheep skins.

The New York Revolutionary records mention Thomas Quigley, first
lieutenant of the privateer _General Putnam_, “formerly the _Betsey_.”
She was commanded, successively, by Capt. Thomas Cregier and Capt.
William Mercier.

A roll of Capt. John Givens’ company of militia, Augusta County, Va.,
1777–’82, includes the names James Donohoe, Peter Carrol, John Morrison,
Neil Hughes, John Craig, Andrew Mitchell and others indicative of Irish
extraction.

Alexander Johnston came from near Londonderry, Ireland, about 1721, and
settled in Pennsylvania. He was a magistrate, and at one time owned a
farm in Pennsylvania of 900 acres. Col. Francis Johnston of the
Revolution was his son.

Michael Wright, a native of Mountmellick, Queens County, Ireland, served
during the Revolution in a Rhode Island regiment of the Line. He is
mentioned in a return as 42 years of age and as having his residence in
Seaconnet, R. I.

Gen. Stephen Moylan, of the Revolution, was a brother of the Roman
Catholic bishop of Cork, Ireland. Two of his sisters became nuns. One of
them was abbess of the Ursuline convent in Cork, and the other was a nun
in the same convent.

Macarty de Marteigue was the commander, in 1782, of the French warship
_Le Magnifique_, which formed part of the naval force sent over by
France to aid the American Revolution. Du Fay de Carty is mentioned as
an ensign on the same ship.

The Massachusetts Revolutionary records mention Patrick Burke, a soldier
of Col. John Crane’s regiment of artillery. Burke enlisted for the town
of Wrentham, Mass., was a sergeant, and is at one period referred to as
“Orderly to the General.”

Hugh McLean, a native of Ireland, was born in 1724. He settled in
Milton, Mass., and died in 1799. His son, John McLean, was a benefactor
of Harvard College and of the Massachusetts General Hospital, the latter
institution in Boston, Mass.

Among those serving during the Revolution, in the First Regiment,
Virginia Light Dragoons, were James Casey, Thomas Hogan, John Carroll,
William Hicks, John Powers and Niel McCaffry. They are mentioned in the
Virginia records of that period.

Some years after the close of the Revolution, Christopher Fitzsimons, a
wealthy Irishman of Charleston, S. C., passed away, leaving an estate
worth $700,000. His daughter, Anne, married one of the Hamptons,
receiving $100,000 as her dower.

Mention is made in the Massachusetts Revolutionary records of John
McLaughlin, a marine who served aboard the _Alfred_, commanded by John
Paul Jones. McLaughlin is referred to as entitled to prize shares in the
ship _Mellish_ and the brig _Active_.

Before 1800, Masters Knox and Crocker, natives of Ireland, taught school
at Bowen’s Hill (Coventry, R. I.), and the neighborhood. (Cole’s
_History of Washington and Kent Counties, R. I._) The name Knox is found
in the Coventry records as early as 1766.

David O’Killia, a son of David, “the Irishman” of old Yarmouth, Mass.,
married Anna Bills in 1662. He had a brother named John who wedded in
1690. Another brother, Jeremiah, died in 1728. A sister, Elizabeth,
became the wife of Silas Sears in 1707.

Timothy McKlewain’s name appears in a list of subscribers at a meeting
in East Windsor, Conn., April 21, 1777. The meeting was “For ye Great &
important Purpose of furnishing our Proportion of men for the
Continental Army.” He subscribed £1 10s.

Alexander Bryan, from Armagh in Ireland, was a settler at Milford,
Conn., as far back as 1639. In 1661 he bought of the Indians the last
twenty acres they owned on Milford Neck. He paid them therefor six
coats, three blankets and three pairs of breeches.

Among the ancient inscriptions in the old Granary Burial Ground, Boston,
Mass., is the following: “Here Lyeth Interred y^e body of Charles
Maccarty, son to Thadeus and Elizabeth Maccarty, aged 18 years, wanting
7 days. Deceased y^e 25 of October, 1683.”

Patrick Cavenaugh, a soldier of the Revolution, served in the Eighth
Regiment of the Pennsylvania Line. On one occasion he saved General
Lincoln from being captured by the British, in New Jersey. He was
afterwards an express rider for General Greene.

A Massachusetts soldier of the Revolution was Daniel McCarty. He was
born in Ireland, came to this country and enlisted in the Patriot ranks.
He served in Greaton’s regiment and is credited in the records to
Roxbury, Mass. He is reported as killed in 1777.

Charles O’Gorman was one of the “lieutenants en second” of the
Irish-French regiment of Walsh during the American Revolution. His name
is preserved in the French military archives and is mentioned in _Les
Combattants De La Guerre Americaine_ (Paris, 1903).

About 1735, Richard Copley with his wife, Mary (Singleton) Copley, came
to America from County Clare, Ireland. His health being poor, he went to
the West Indies to recuperate. John Singleton Copley, the eminent
artist, a native of Boston, Mass., was their son.

Matthew Hurley was one of the soldiers serving in the war against
Philip, the Indian king, 1675–’76. He was at one period of the company
of Captain Wadsworth, who was killed in the battle at Sudbury, Mass.,
and is mentioned in Bodge’s work on _King Philip’s War_.

Patrick McLaughlin, a soldier of the Revolution, served in the First
Pennsylvania regiment, commanded by Col. John Philip De Haas; was taken
prisoner by the British at Three Rivers, June 9, 1776. He is mentioned
in the Revolutionary records of Pennsylvania.

Abbe Bartholomew O’Mahony was chaplain of the French warship _L’Ivelly_
during the American Revolution. _L’Ivelly_ was commanded by M. le
Chevalier Durumain, and formed part of the fleet of Count De Grasse.
(See _Les Combattants Francais De La Guerre Americaine_.)

In an old cemetery at Rutland, Mass., is a gravestone to the memory of
Patrick Gregory, who was born in County Donegal, Ireland, about 1690.
When he came to this country is unknown. He died July 5, 1756. On the
gravestone just mentioned shamrocks are carved.

A native of County Armagh, Ireland, Thomas Robinson, was born in 1745
and died in Providence, R. I., 1809. He had been a resident of
Providence for seventeen years; was described as “an ingenious and
useful citizen” and “possessed the most enduring philanthropy.”

An influential man in Maryland, in 1647 and later, was Philip Conner. In
the year named he was appointed a commissioner for Kent County. He is
referred to as “The last commander of old Kent.” A descendant, James
Conner, in 1705 wedded Elinor Flannagan.

Born at sea, of Irish parents, 1745, William Patterson died in 1806. He
was a member of the first Constitutional Convention of New Jersey;
attorney-general of the state; United States senator; governor of New
Jersey; and judge of the Supreme Court of the United States.

At a military review near Trenton, N. J., in 1776, George Fullerton, a
native of Ireland, was killed by the accidental discharge of a pistol.
He was a merchant in Philadelphia, Pa., and a member of the First City
Troop. In his will is mentioned John Fullerton, an uncle in Ireland.

Three Irish Rhode Islanders in the Revolution were James Bishop, William
Parker and John Wilson. Bishop was born in Dublin; Parker in County
Waterford, and Wilson in County Kilkenny. They served in Captain
Topham’s company of Col. Thomas Church’s regiment.

Ensign Patrick Cronin was of Colonel Malcom’s New York regiment of
levies in the Revolution. Also on the regimental rolls appear the names
Cleary, Conner, Crane, Daley, Griffin, Jackson, McCarty, McCoy, McGee,
McWilliams, Mead, Moore, Morrison, Murphy and the like.

Hon. Thomas McKean, a signer of the Declaration of Independence and
president of Congress, was a founder, an incorporator, and the first
president of the Hibernian Society of Philadelphia, Pa. His parents were
both natives of Ireland. (Campbell’s _History of the Hibernian
Society_.)

Michael Connolly was captain and paymaster, during the Revolution, in
the Second New York Regiment of the Line. Philip Van Cortland was
colonel of the regiment. There were many Irish in the command, as
reference to _New York in the Revolution_, by James A. Roberts, will
show.

An Irish trader at Fort Pitt (Pittsburg) before the Revolution was John
Ormsby. He suffered depredations during Pontiac’s war, and was later
granted a large tract of land at Fort Pitt. He was an active patriot
during the Revolution and took a prominent part in the struggle for
liberty.

Capt. Daniel Malcom, an Irishman, died in Boston, Mass., 1769. He “was a
true son of Liberty, a friend to the Publick, an enemy to oppression and
one of the foremost in opposing the Revenue Acts on America.” His
remains rest in a brick tomb in the old Copp’s Hill graveyard, Boston.

Capt. Edward Connor was of Col. Marinus Willett’s New York regiment in
the Revolution. Also in the regiment appear such names as Burk, Crowley,
Downing, Garvey, Hicks, Kelly, Kenny, Lane, Lyons, McCoy, McGee, McGill,
McVey, Molloy, Moore, Quin, Ryan and Welsh.

A Connecticut soldier of the Revolution, George McCarty, served in
Bigelow’s artillery company, the first company of artillery raised in
Connecticut during the war. It marched to the northern department and
was stationed during the summer and fall of 1776 at Ticonderoga and
vicinity.

Born in Tipperary, Ireland, Edward Fitzgerald came to this country and
became a soldier of the Revolution. He was a resident of Newport, R. I.
He is mentioned as of the Rhode Island Continental Line when he was but
19 years of age. He saw much service at Ticonderoga and elsewhere.

A native of Dublin, Ireland, John Read was born in 1688. He came to this
country, purchased an estate in Maryland, and was one of the founders of
Charlestown on the headwaters of Chesapeake Bay. He was appointed by the
Colonial Legislature a commissioner to lay out and govern the town.

Paul Cox, an Irishman, was of Philadelphia, Pa., as early as 1773. He
became a member of the Pennsylvania State Navy Board, 1777, and was
otherwise prominent. The inscription on his tombstone in Philadelphia
states that he was “Thrice an elector of the president of the United
States.”

Christopher Marshall, a native of Dublin, Ireland, was born in 1709. He
settled in Philadelphia, Pa., and was a druggist. During the Revolution
his firm furnished drugs and medicines to the Continental army. He was a
member of the Committee of Safety throughout the whole period of the
war.

Maj. John Gillespy is mentioned as serving during the Revolution in the
Fourth Regiment, Ulster County (N. Y.) Militia, commanded by Colonel
Hardenburgh. Also of the same regiment was Lieut. Samuel Gillespy. (Vide
_New York in the Revolution_, by Comptroller James A. Roberts, Albany,
1898.)

In the old graveyard attached to the stone church built on the site of
Fort Herkimer in the Mohawk valley, N. Y., is buried John Ring “of the
Kingdom of Ireland, captain of one of His Majesty’s companies of this
Province, who departed this life 20th day of Sept., 1755, in the 30th
year of his age.”

Thomas McCarthy, a soldier of the Revolution, enlisted from Newtown,
Pa., Jan. 14, 1776, for three years, in Capt. George Lewis’ troop, Third
Regiment, Continental Dragoons, commanded by Col. George Baylor. On May
1, 1777, he was assigned to the cavalry of the Commander-in-Chief’s
Guard.

John M. O’Brien is mentioned in the Rhode Island records as a soldier of
the Revolution. He served in Captain Dexter’s company, of the “Late Col.
Greene’s regiment,” and died in 1781. He is believed to have been the
soldier elsewhere mentioned in the Rhode Island records as John Morris
O’Brien.

Andrew Caldwell, born in Ireland, became a prominent merchant in
Philadelphia, Pa. He was a patriot of the Revolution; member of the
Council of Safety; member of the First City Troop, Philadelphia; member
of the Navy Board; port warden of Philadelphia; a director of the Bank
of North America.

George Bryan, an Irishman, became a resident of Philadelphia, Pa.; was a
member of the Assembly; a delegate, in 1765, to the Stamp Act Congress;
a patriot of the Revolution; vice-president of the Supreme Executive
Council of Pennsylvania: president of the same; a judge of the Supreme
Court of the state.

In Mason’s _Reminiscences of Newport_ (R. I.) is an interesting
reference to Henry Goldsmith, a native of Westmeath, Ireland. He settled
in Newport when he was 24 years of age, married there in 1779, and had
14 children. At the close of the Revolution, Mr. and Mrs. Goldsmith
removed from Newport.

James Calhoun, grandfather of John C. Calhoun, came from Donegal,
Ireland, in 1733, with his family, and settled in Pennsylvania, later
removing to western Virginia, and at a later period, further south. In
1765 they established the “Calhoun settlement” in South Carolina, near
the Cherokee Indian frontier.

James Blaine came from Ireland with his family prior to 1745. He settled
in Toboyne township, Cumberland County, Pa., where he died in 1792. He
left a widow and nine children. Col. Ephraim Blaine of the Revolution
was one of these children. The late Hon. James G. Blaine of Maine was a
descendant.

One of the officers in the Irish-French regiment of Dillon, during the
American Revolution, was Patrick Murphy. His name is preserved in the
military archives of France, and by its publication in _Les Combattants
Francais De La Guerre Americaine_, is recalled and forever made known to
the American people.

Mary Peisley was a native of Kildare, Ireland, and was born in 1717. She
entered the Quaker ministry about 1744, came to America with Ann Payton,
and perhaps other Quakers, about 1753, labored in New York, the
Carolinas, Maryland and Rhode Island; returned to Ireland and married
Samuel Neale of Dublin.

James Moore, who was chosen governor of South Carolina, was born in
Ireland about 1640. He came to this country in 1655, settled in
Charleston, S. C., wedded a daughter of Sir John Yeamans and had 10
children. One of his sons, also named James Moore, was likewise chosen
governor of South Carolina.

Born in Ireland in 1705, Jeremiah Smith came to Boston, Mass., with his
wife, in 1726, and finally settled in Milton, Mass., 1737. He was an
intimate friend of Governor Hutchinson, Governor Hancock and other
leading men. He engaged in the manufacture of paper, and carried on the
business until 1775 when he retired.

The Virginia records show that Symon Tuchin was in that colony in 1625.
He was master of the _Due Return_, and “having been banished out of
Ireland was reported as strongly affected to popery.” Accordingly, “The
Governor and Council of Virginia sent him as a prisoner, in January,
1625, to the Company in England.”

Mary Mallins, “from Bandon in Ireland,” was among those arrested in
Boston, Mass., at the time of the prosecution of the Quakers, she being
one of the latter. She and twenty-seven other Quakers were finally
liberated by Endicott and were ordered to leave the jurisdiction at
once, nor to return at their peril.

Morison’s _Life of Judge Jeremiah Smith_, who was a native of
Peterborough, N. H., states that “He began to study Latin when about
twelve years old, with Rudolphus Greene, an Irishman employed by the
town to keep school a quarter of the year in each of the four quarters
of the town.” Judge Smith was born about 1771.

John Mitchell, a native of Ireland, was muster-master-general of the
Pennsylvania State navy, 1775–’76; acting commissary, 1776–’77;
lieutenant on the _Chatham_, 1775; captain of the _Ranger_, 1776; a
merchant in France after the Revolution; United States consul at
Santiago de Cuba; admiralty surveyor of Philadelphia, Pa.

A Rhode Island soldier, 1756–’59, was named William Sheehan. He is
mentioned in the former year as a lieutenant and quartermaster for the
expedition against Crown Point. In 1758, he appears as first lieutenant
in the major’s company of his regiment, and is also referred to the same
year as captain and quartermaster.

A Virginia trooper who rendered service against the French and Indians
was Thomas Doyle. The Assembly of Virginia passed an act in 1756 for the
payment of men engaged in said service. Doyle was voted 1,860 pounds of
tobacco, and other troopers were to be paid like amounts. (Boogher’s
_Gleanings of Virginia History_.)

Daniel Magennis is a name frequently met in King Philip’s War, 1675–’76.
Daniel became a corporal and was at one time company clerk. He served at
various times under Captain Henchman, Captain Wheeler and other
commanders. His name also appears in the records as Maginnis. (See
Bodge’s _History of King Philip’s War_.)

Col. Charles Stewart was born in County Donegal, Ireland, 1729. He came
to America, 1750; was deputy surveyor-general of Pennsylvania; patriot
of the Revolution; colonel of a New Jersey regiment of Minute Men;
colonel of a New Jersey regiment of the Line; served on Washington’s
staff; member of the Continental Congress.

“In the _Mayflower_ ... were one hundred and one men, women, boys and
girls as passengers, besides captain and crew. These were of English,
Dutch, French and Irish ancestry, and thus typical of our national
stock.” (Rev. William Elliot Griffis in _Brave Little Holland and What
She Taught Us_. New York, 1894. Page 208.)

Bernard O’Neill was a captain in the Irish-French regiment of Dillon in
the American Revolution. He was probably the “Captain Commandant
O’Neill” who participated in the expedition against Savannah, where he
was wounded in the breast, and may have been identical with “Le Baron
Bernard O’Neill,” who became a Chevalier of St. Louis.

Thomas DeCourcy was a native of Newport, R. I. His father came from
Ireland and settled in Newport about 1720. The father’s brother, also
named Thomas, was Baron Kinsale. Upon the latter’s death, Thomas, the
native of Newport, succeeded to the title and estates. Mention of these
facts may be found in Peterson’s _History of Rhode Island_.

Eleanor Ledlie was of Irish parentage. She became the wife of Capt.
Samuel Bowman, an officer of the Revolution, who as commander of the
guard walked arm in arm with Major Andre, the British spy, to the place
of the latter’s execution. (Hon. Edward A. Moseley of Washington, D. C.,
in an address to the American-Irish Historical Society.)

Matthias Alexis de Roche Fermoy, of Irish extraction, was an officer in
the French forces that came to America during our Revolution and
assisted in establishing the independence of the United States. He
became a brigadier and is mentioned in the work entitled _Generals of
the Continental Line in the Revolutionary War_ (Philadelphia, 1903).

Brian Murphy was a soldier in King Philip’s War, 1675–’76. He is
mentioned in Bodge’s history of that war and is credited with garrison
duty at Mendon, Mass. Thomas Tally, Patrick Morren, Timothy Larkin,
Joseph Griffin, Jeremiah Toy, Philip Butler, John Hand and Thomas Welch
are also mentioned by Bodge as participating in that struggle.

During the Revolution, Capt. William Burke of the armed schooner
_Warren_ was captured by the British frigate _Liverpool_ and carried
into Halifax, from whence he was sent to New York and confined on board
a prison ship. He was later exchanged for Capt. Richard Jones, “a
British officer of equal rank.” Captain Burke is mentioned as of
Marblehead, Mass.

Susannah Lightfoot, a native of Ireland, was born in 1720. She was a
Quaker, and with Ruth Courtney came from Ireland to America on a visit
to Friends here. On her return to the Old Land, she landed at Cork. In
1760, she paid a second visit to these shores, and four years later
removed with her husband from Ireland and permanently settled here.

Among those serving under Esek Hopkins, during the Revolution, was
Patrick Kaine. He is mentioned as a marine and served aboard the
_Cabot_. In an engagement with the British ship _Glasgow_, April 6,
1776, he was killed. Anthony Dwyer, Richard Sweeney, John Connor, Thomas
Dowd and Andrew Magee also served aboard the _Cabot_ under Hopkins.

Jeremiah Driskel, William Henussey and John Leary all served in the
Commander-in-Chief’s Guard (Washington’s) during the Revolution. Driskel
had previously served in a Maryland regiment; Henussey, in a
Pennsylvania command, and Leary, in a regiment commanded by John Stark.
(See Godfrey’s work on _The Commander-in-Chief’s Guard_.)

In 1776, John O’Kelley was a member of a military company in the town of
Warren, R. I. The company was commanded by Capt. Ezra Ormsbee. Also in
the company were Daniel Kelley and Joseph Kelley. The General Assembly
of Rhode Island, in 1782, gave “Mrs. Elizabeth O’Kelley, widow of John
O’Kelley,” of Warren, permission to sell certain real estate.

Thomas Jones, “from Strabane, Ireland,” came to Rhode Island prior to
1699; later he removed to Long Island, N. Y. He married Freelove
Townsend, whose father gave them land at Massapequa, where they settled.
They are mentioned in Bunker’s _Long Island Genealogies_. Mr. and Mrs.
Jones had a son David, born in 1699. Thomas, the immigrant, died in
1713.

Andrew Meade, a Kerry Irishman, and a Catholic, emigrated to New York,
married Mary Latham, a Quakeress of Flushing, went to Nansemond County,
Va., and died there in 1745. His son was Col. Richard Kidder Meade, an
aide-de-camp of General Washington. (Quoted by Martin I. J. Griffin of
Philadelphia, Pa., in _American Catholic Historical Researches_.)

Thomas, John and Walter Dongan, kinsmen of Governor Dongan of New York,
are believed to have been residing in New York in 1715. In 1723 a
private act was passed by the Assembly of the province “to enable Thomas
Dongan and Walter Dongan, two surviving kinsmen of Thomas, late Earl of
Limerick,” to sell part of their estate. A similar act was passed in
1726.

Hotten’s _Original Lists_ (London, 1874) contain the names of many Irish
who were conveyed to Virginia, Barbadoes and other parts. The work
comprises the period from 1600 to 1700 and mentions “Persons of quality,
emigrants, religious exiles, political rebels, serving men sold for a
term of years, apprentices, children stolen, maidens pressed” and other
wayfarers of the time.

Charles Carroll, grandfather of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, came to
this country about 1689 and settled in Maryland. In 1691 he was made
judge and register of the land office, and agent and receiver for Lord
Baltimore’s rents. His son, also named Charles Carroll, was born in 1702
and died in 1782. Charles Carroll of Carrollton was a son of this second
Charles Carroll.

Michael Ryan, a soldier of the Revolution, was acting-adjutant of the
Fourth Pennsylvania regiment, commanded by Col. Anthony Wayne, from Feb.
17, 1776; was appointed adjutant March 15 that year; became a captain in
the Fifth Pennsylvania, and was inspector of General Wayne’s division;
was promoted brigade-major, Nov. 18, 1777; also served as major of the
Tenth Pennsylvania.

The Massachusetts records mention Patrick McMullen as serving during the
Revolution aboard the _Providence_, under John Paul Jones. He is
referred to as entitled to a prize share in the ship _Alexander_,
captured in 1777, and is also mentioned as a marine aboard the _Alfred_,
commanded by Jones. In this latter capacity he was entitled to prize
shares in the ship _Mellish_ and the brig _Active_,

Andrew Brown, born in Ireland, was educated at Trinity College, Dublin,
came to this country and eventually settled in Massachusetts. He was a
patriot of the Revolution, fought at Lexington and Bunker Hill; served
as major under Gates and Greene. After the war, he established the
_Federal Gazette_ at Philadelphia, Pa., the publication being later
known as the _Philadelphia Gazette_.

An Irish schoolmaster in Brunswick, Me., was Thomas Crowell. He settled
there shortly after the close of the Revolution, and taught school there
for over twenty years. Many of his pupils became leading business men,
and some of them famous shipmasters. Sumner L. Holbrook read a paper, a
few years ago, before the Pejepscot Historical Society, of Brunswick,
devoted to Master Crowell.

John Donnaldson, “son of Hugh Donnaldson of Dungannon, Ireland,” was a
shipping merchant in Philadelphia, Pa.; a patriot of the Revolution;
member of the First City Troop; took part in the battles of Trenton,
Princeton, Brandywine, and Germantown; subscribed £2,000, in 1780, in
aid of the army; became register-general of Pennsylvania; and
comptroller-general of the state.

David McCarty, Albany, N. Y., was a member of the Committee of Safety
there during the Revolution. He was a valiant soldier and at the time of
his death was a general of state troops. In May, 1771, he married
Charlotta, granddaughter of Pieter Coeymans, the founder of a wealthy
Dutch family. By this marriage McCarty came into the possession of much
land in the Coeymans Patent.

Well-nigh forgotten now is Christopher Stuart, an Irishman and soldier
of the Revolution. He was born in the Old Land, 1748, and settled in
Montgomery County, Pa. He served successively as captain, major and
lieutenant-colonel of Pennsylvania troops, including the Line; took part
in the battle of Long Island, the storming of Stony Point, and in other
actions of the war; died, 1799.

Patrick Googins, “a young Irish weaver,” came to this country about 1722
and settled at Old Orchard, Me. He married Hester Rogers. Her father
gave Patrick as her marriage portion 200 acres there. In years long
after, the place became known as “the old Googins farm.” The farm
remained in the Googins family for four generations. (See an article in
the _Old Orchard Mirror_, 1902.)

One of the founders of the Charitable Irish Society of Boston, Mass.,
1737, was Joseph St. Lawrence. In the records of the Boston selectmen,
that year, appears the following: “Mr. Joseph St. Lawrence from Ireland,
Merchant, having imported upwards of Fifty Pounds Sterling, Prays he may
be Allow’d to Carry on his Business in this Town.” It is presumed the
desired permission was granted.

Charles Thomson, who for nearly fifteen years was secretary of the
Continental Congress, being sometimes referred to as its “Perpetual
secretary,” was born in Ireland, 1729. He participated in various treaty
proceedings with the Indians, and was styled by the latter “The man of
truth.” He married Hannah Harrison whose nephew, William Henry Harrison,
became president of the United States.

Robert Temple arrived at Boston, Mass., from Ireland, in 1717, with a
party of Irish Protestants. He settled on Noddle’s Island, now East
Boston, and had a house there that “contained elegant rooms suitable for
the reception of persons of the first condition.” He commanded a company
in operations against the Indians. He became a member of the Boston
Charitable Irish Society in 1740.

George Taylor, a native of Ireland, died in Providence, R. I., in 1778.
He taught school there for over 40 years, was for a number of years
president of the Town Council and held other positions of trust and
honor. He was a man of public spirit and witnessed events of the earlier
part of the Revolution. The Providence _Gazette_ states that “He was an
honor to the country that gave him birth.”

Col. Israel Angell of the Second Rhode Island regiment in the
Continental Line, has this entry in his diary under date of March 17,
1781: “Good weather. A great parade this day with the Irish, it being
St. Patrick’s. I spent the day on the Point [West Point], and tarried
with the officers.” This diary has been reproduced in printed form by
Edward Field, secretary of the Providence, R. I., Record Commission.

Alexander Black, an Irishman, was a resident of Providence, R. I., as
early as 1762. He was a merchant and was associated in business with
James Black, and later with Alexander Stewart. Alexander Black died in
Providence, 1767. In a notice of his death, which appears in the
Providence _Gazette_, he is declared to have been “A fast friend to the
liberties of America, and studied to promote the public weal.”

James Kavanagh, a native of County Wexford, Ireland, came to Boston,
Mass., in 1780, during the Revolution, but settled at Damariscotta
Mills, Me., and engaged in the lumber business. His son, Edward, became
president of the State Senate of Maine, a member of Congress, United
States charge d’affaires in Portugal, a commissioner to settle the
northeastern boundary of Maine, and acting governor of Maine.

Edmund Fanning, an Irishman, was a victim of the Cromwellian
confiscation, and fled at the time of the surrender of Limerick, 1651,
and settled in Groton, Conn. His uncle, Dominick Fanning of Limerick,
was one of the 21 persons exempted from pardon by Ireton and was
beheaded at that time. D. H. Fanning and Walter F. Brooks, Worcester,
Mass., are descendants of Edmund Fanning, the Groton settler.

Morgan Connor, a Pennsylvania soldier of the Revolution, was
successively lieutenant, captain, major, and lieutenant-colonel
commandant. He served in Col. Samuel Miles’ Pennsylvania Rifle Regiment;
was wounded in the right wrist at Princeton; was called from camp by
Congress in March, 1776, and sent South as brigade major for General
Armstrong; was afterwards lieutenant-colonel of Hartley’s regiment.

John Brown, a native of Ireland, came to this country about 1760. He
settled in Virginia, in the Warm Spring Valley, and had a tract of 400
acres. About 1778 he married Mary Donnelly. He commanded a company in
the Revolution, and after the war was a justice for Bath County, Va.,
sheriff and treasurer of the county, major of the Second Battalion of
militia, and a member of the General Assembly of Virginia.

Daniel Dulany, a native of Queens County, Ireland, was born in 1686. He
was a cousin of Rev. Patrick Dulany, dean of Down. Daniel came to this
country when quite young and settled in Maryland. He was admitted to the
bar in 1710, became attorney-general of the province, judge of
admiralty, commissary-general, agent and receiver-general, and
councillor. He was in the public service of Maryland for nearly 40
years.

Edward Fox was born in Dublin, Ireland, 1752; came to this country,
studied law and eventually settled in Philadelphia, Pa. He held various
positions of prominence there; became secretary of the Bank of the
United States, secretary of the American Fire Insurance Co., recorder of
deeds for the county of Philadelphia, and treasurer of the University of
Pennsylvania. One of his sons married a daughter of Gen. Stephen Moylan.

Cortlandt Schuyler of Albany, N. Y., was captain in “a marching
regiment” of the British Army. He married a handsome Irishwoman in
Ireland, while stationed there, and brought her to Albany about 1763.
Upon his death, she returned to Ireland with her children, “where it is
said their desendants bearing the name Schuyler still live.” (Mrs.
Grant’s _Memoirs of an American Lady_, quoted by Hon. Franklin M.
Danaher of Albany.)

In 1769–’70, Rev. Hezekiah Smith made a tour of South Carolina and
Georgia in aid of Rhode Island College, now Brown University. He says in
his diary of the tour: “Thursday, March 1, 1770, went to Malachi
Murfee’s.” The list of those who subscribed in aid of the college, on
this Southern trip, includes Edward Dempsey, Charles Reilly, Patrick
Hinds, James Welsh, Hugh Dillon, John Boyd, Matthew Roach and Capt. John
Canty.

An officer who came with our French allies during the Revolution was
Isidore de Lynch. He was at one period an aide-de-camp to the Chevalier
de Chastellux. Referring to the return of the French to Boston after the
surrender of the British at Yorktown, Count Segur speaks of “Isidore de
Lynch, an intrepid Irishman, afterwards a General.” Lynch became
commander of the Irish-French regiment of Walsh, and was decorated with
the Cross of St. Louis.

The Dutch records of Albany, N. Y., mention Jan Fyne, “van Waterfort in
Irlandt.” His name likewise appears as Johannes Fine, which in English
would probably be John Finn. He is believed to have been a soldier who
was sent to Albany in 1690. He settled there and is later mentioned as a
cooper. In 1696 he wedded Jopje Classe Van Slyck. His second wife, whom
he married in 1699, was Alida, daughter of Jacob Janse Gardiner of
Kinderhook.

Watson H. Harwood, M. D., of Chasm Falls, N. Y., in a paper contributed
to the _Register_ of the New England Historic, Genealogical Society,
January, 1898, treats of the Clogstons of New Hampshire. He states that
“The Clogston family is of Irish origin,” and that it came to New
Hampshire sometime after 1718. Paul Clogston, a descendant of the
immigrants, died of wounds received at Bunker Hill, 1775. The name is
sometimes written Clogstone.

Blair McClenachan, an Irishman by birth, settled in Philadelphia, Pa.,
at an early age, and became the “largest importer in the city except
Robert Morris”; was a patriot of the Revolution; subscribed, in 1780,
£10,000 in aid of the army; was one of the original members of the First
City Troop; a member of Congress, 1797–’99; was made commissioner of
loans by President Jefferson. One of McClenachan’s daughters married
Gen. Walter Stewart.

One of the early settlers of Peterborough, N. H., was William McNee. He
was born in Ireland, 1711, and before coming to this country married
Mary E. Brownley. In an address delivered at Peterborough, some years
ago, Hon. James F. Brennan of that town said that McNee’s “descendants
have now reached the eighth generation, but unfortunately the name is
entirely lost. The first and second generations retained the name, but
the third changed it to Nay.”

Michael Morgan O’Brien, a native of Ireland, became a West India
merchant in Philadelphia, Pa., and was located there as early as 1780.
He was a member of the First City Troop of Philadelphia, of the Friendly
Sons of St. Patrick, the Hibernia Fire Company, and the Hibernian
Society. He died in France, 1804. He bequeathed his books to the “Rt.
Reverend Father in God, John Carroll, R. C., Bishop of Baltimore, as a
testimony of the great respect and esteem I bear him.”

A prominent man in his day was John Patton. He was born in Sligo,
Ireland, 1745, settled in Philadelphia, Pa., and became a merchant
there. A patriot of the Revolution, he was successively major and
colonel of the Sixteenth Pennsylvania regiment, and rendered gallant
service during the war. In 1780 he subscribed £1,000 in aid of the army.
After the war he was an iron manufacturer, and at the time of his death,
1804, was major-general of Pennsylvania state troops.

Christopher Colles, a native of Ireland, was born in 1737. He came to
this country and lectured on pneumatics, inland navigation, water supply
for cities and similar topics. In 1775, he became an instructor in
gunnery and was so employed in the American Continental Army until 1777.
He memorialized the New York Legislature, in 1784, in favor of a canal
from the Hudson River to Lake Ontario. He constructed and operated a
telegraph, in 1812, at Fort Clinton.

One of the victims of the Boston massacre, March 5, 1770, was Patrick
Carr. On that date, British soldiers in Boston, Mass., fired on a
gathering of the people, three of the latter being instantly killed and
five dangerously wounded. Crispus Attucks, the leader of the gathering,
was among the killed and Carr was mortally wounded. A granite monument
stands on Boston Common to commemorate the victims of the British. High
up on the shaft, among the others, appears the name of Patrick Carr.

The _Mercury_ (Philadelphia) of Aug. 28, 1735, reported: “On Monday
last, Capt. Blair arrived from Carick Fargus in Ireland with 168 Irish
passengers and servants and on Monday evening before any of them landed
one of them fell into the river and was drowned.” The next paper
announced: “the body was found, the next tide carried up seven miles
from the mouth of the Schuylkill.” (_American Catholic Historical
Researches_, Philadelphia, Pa., Martin I. J. Griffin, editor.)

From the records of the selectmen, Boston, Mass., Aug. 4, 1736: “Dennis
Sullivant being present Informs, That he with his Wife are lately come
into this Town from South Carolina by land; That he has been in Town
about Five Weeks; That he first Lodg’d at the White Horse Two nights,
and a Fortnight at Mrs. Snowdens and now lodges in Long lane, That he
designs to return to England or Ireland, as soon as he can Conveniently
Obtain a Passage for himself and his said Wife.”

Gen. William Thompson of the Revolution was an Irishman by birth. He
came to this country prior to the War for Independence; served during
the French and Indian War; became captain of a troop of Light Horse; led
a regiment, in 1775, to the American camp at Cambridge, Mass., and
participated in the siege of Boston; had many sharpshooters in his
command; was made brigadier-general in 1776; relieved General Lee in
command of the American forces at New York; died in 1791.

A veteran soldier of the Revolution was Patrick Leonard, who was born in
Ireland, 1740. He came to this country and enlisted in the Patriot
ranks; served in Proctor’s artillery and in the First Regiment,
Pennsylvania Line. He saw much service and took part in the battles of
Bunker Hill, Long Island, White Plains, Trenton, Princeton, Brandywine,
Germantown and Stony Point; also served, in 1791–’96, under Harmar, St.
Clair and Wayne. He was residing, in 1817, at Cincinnati, Ohio.

A native of County Westmeath, Ireland, John Shee, came to America
between 1742 and 1745; became prominent in Philadelphia, Pa.; a patriot
of the Revolution; commanded the Third Pennsylvania regiment; member of
the Pennsylvania State Board of War; subscribed £1,000 in aid of the
army; is referred to as “a man of excellent manners and good
acquirements”; after the war, became a general of Pennsylvania state
troops; collector of the port of Philadelphia; city treasurer of
Philadelphia.

A native of Strabane, County Tyrone, Ireland, John Dunlap, was born in
1747. He settled in Philadelphia, Pa.; became printer to Congress, and
to the state of Pennsylvania; published the Philadelphia _Packet_; was
cornet, lieutenant, and commander of the First City Troop; commanded the
cavalry in the Whiskey Insurrection campaign. During the Revolution he
subscribed £4,000 in aid of the Patriot army. He was at one time the
owner of 98,000 acres in the South, in addition to real estate
elsewhere.

One of the earliest Irishmen in this country of whom we have record was
Francis Maguire. Hon. Hugh Hastings, state historian of New York, writes
that Maguire arrived at Jamestown, Va., with Capt. Christopher Newport,
about 1607, remained in the country nearly a year, and returned to
England with Newport. Maguire “wrote an account of his voyage to
Virginia and submitted it to the Privy Council of Spain.” In one account
he is described as an Irishman and a Roman Catholic.

Teague Crehore was a resident of Milton or Dorchester, Mass., as early
as 1640–’50. He is stated to have been stolen from his parents in
Ireland when a child. He died in 1695, aged 55 years. This would show
that he was born about 1640. He had a son Timothy, born in 1660, who
died in 1739 and is buried in Milton, Mass. This Timothy had a son
Timothy, grandson of Teague, who was born in 1689 and wedded Mary
Driscoll of Dorchester, Mass., in 1712. He died in 1755 and is buried in
Milton.

Rev. Samuel Dorrance, an Irish Presbyterian clergyman, arrived in
Voluntown, Conn., 1722, and was installed as pastor of the church there.
His nationality caused some dissatisfaction, and the disgruntled members
of the church drew up a petition for his removal. They were informed,
they said, that “He came out of Ireland” and that since his coming “The
Irish do flock into town.” (Larned’s _History of Windham County, Conn._,
quoted by Rev. James H. O’Donnell in his _History of the Diocese of
Hartford_.)

The “poll list for the election of burgesses for the County of Prince
William,” Virginia, 1731, contains many Irish names, including Darby
Callahan, Edward Barry, John Mead, Thomas Conway, Samuel Conner, Michael
Regan, James Curry, Owen Gilmore, John Murphey, William Hogan, Thomas
Hicks, Michael Scanlon, John Madden, Dennis McCarty, Thomas Jordan,
Richard Higgins, Thomas Welsh, etc. These and other names, constituting
the entire list, are set forth in Boogher’s _Gleanings of Virginia
History_.

A gallant soldier of the Revolution, who has almost been forgotten, was
John Haslett. He was born in Ireland, came to this country and located
in Delaware; was for several terms a member of the State Assembly;
participated in the battles of Long Island and White Plains. On one
occasion, he surprised a British picket, took 36 prisoners, 60 muskets,
and two pairs of colors; became colonel of a Delaware regiment and was
killed at the battle of Princeton, 1777. His son, Joseph, became
governor of Delaware.

Among the many Irish names on the roster of the Commander-in-Chief’s
Guard, during the Revolution, is that of Hugh Hagerty. He served in a
Pennsylvania regiment of the Line, and was transferred at Valley
Forge, March 19, 1778, to the Guard just mentioned. This organization
is sometimes referred to as Washington’s “Life Guard,” and was
composed of picked men. Hagerty participated in the battle of Monmouth
and other engagements of the war. (Godfrey’s recent work on _The
Commander-in-Chief’s Guard_.)

The Dutch records of New York mention Jan Andriessen, “the Irishman.”
Jan was at Beverwyck, now Albany, N. Y., as early as 1645. He is also
referred to as “De Iersman van Dublingh.” His name in English was
probably John Anderson. In 1649 he leased a “bouwerie” or farm. It is
also known that he bought a farm and homestead of Peter Bronck at
Coxsackie, N. Y. In one document his signature is thus attested: “This
is the mark of Jan Andriessen, the Irishman, with his own hand set.” He
died in 1664.

William Hogen, also written Hogan, is heard from in Albany, N. Y., as
early as 1692. The Dutch records state that he was from “Yrland in de
Kings county.” At a mayor’s court held in Albany, May 14, 1700, he was
deemed “convenient and fitt to be one of the fyre masters for ye Citty.”
June 25, 1700, he was on a petit jury to try an action between two
Dutchmen. He also served on a jury in 1703. In 1700 and 1704 he was
elected an assessor. (Hon. Franklin M. Danaher in _Early Irish in Old
Albany, N. Y._)

James Butler came from Ireland, and is heard from at Lancaster, Mass.,
1653. He became the largest landowner in what is now Worcester County,
Mass. He also owned land in Dunstable, Woburn and Billerica, Mass. He
died in 1681. His son, Deacon John Butler, was the first child of Irish
parentage born in Woburn, and settled in Pelham, N. H., and lies buried
there. (From a letter written to the American-Irish Historical Society
by Henry A. May of Roslindale, Mass., a descendant of James Butler the
immigrant.)

A resident of Yarmouth, Mass., as early as 1645, was Teague Jones, who
is stated to have been an Irishman. He was one of the men sent from the
town, in the year just mentioned, against the Narragansett Indians. His
period of service at the time was thirteen or fourteen days. In 1667,
the selectmen of “the towne of Yarmouth returne the name of Teague Jones
for not coming to meeting.” In a “rate” made in 1676 to defray the
expenses of King Philip’s War, Teague was assessed £2 4s, as his share.
He had a son, Jeremiah.

A prominent resident of Albany, N. Y., during the Revolution, was Hugh
Denniston, “a true Irishman.” For many years he conducted the only
first-class hotel and tavern there. It was the first stone house erected
in the place. Denniston was a sturdy patriot and his hotel was a meeting
place for the liberty-loving citizens of Albany. Washington was a guest
at the hotel on his visits to Albany in 1782 and 1783, and was there
presented the freedom of the city.

Charles MacCarthy was a founder of the town of East Greenwich, R. I.,
1677. Like many surnames at that period, his is variously spelled in the
records. Thus, it appears as Macarta, Macarte, Macarty, Mecarty,
Mackarte, etc. In the year mentioned, he was one of a party of
forty-eight settlers to whom a grant of 5,000 acres, to be called East
Greenwich, was made by the General Assembly of Rhode Island. Later, the
area of the town was enlarged by the addition of 35,000 acres on the
western border. Charles’ will is dated Feb. 18, 1682.

The twenty-six original members of the Charitable Irish Society, Boston,
Mass., which organization was founded in 1737, were: Robert Duncan,
Andrew Knox, Nathaniel Walsh, Joseph St. Lawrence, Daniel McFall, Edward
Allen, William Drummond, William Freeland, Daniel Gibbs, John Noble,
Adam Boyd, William Stewart, Daniel Neal, James Mayes, Samuel Moor,
Philip Mortimer, James Egart, George Glen, Peter Pelham, John Little,
Archibald Thomas, Edward Alderchurch, James Clark, John Clark, Thomas
Bennett and Patrick Walker.

Jasper Moylan was a native of the city of Cork, Ireland, and half
brother of Gen. Stephen Moylan. He was educated in France, studied law,
came to this country and attained eminence in his profession in
Philadelphia, Pa. In addition to English, he had a splendid knowledge of
the French and Spanish languages. He was a member of the First City
Troop of Philadelphia. He and his brother John, and their half brother
Stephen, were known in that city as “the three polite Irishmen,” owing
to their elegant manners. Jasper died in 1812.

Among Virginia officers in the Revolution were Maj. William Croghan,
Capt. Ferdinand O’Neal, Capt. Patrick Carnes, Capt. John Fitzgerald,
Capt. Andrew Nixon, Capt. William Barrett, Capt. John Jordan, Capt.
Lawrence Butler, Capt. James Curry, Lieut. Joseph Conway, Lieut. Luke
Cannon, Lieut. Peter Higgins, Lieut. William McGuire, Lieut. Lawrence
Manning, Lieut. John Rooney, Lieut. Matthew Rhea, Ensign William Connor
and others bearing Irish names. Some of these subsequently attained
higher rank than that here given.

Sharp Delany, born in County Monaghan, Ireland, established himself as a
druggist in Philadelphia, Pa., about 1764. He was a patriot of the
Revolution. In 1777, he was a commissioner “to seize the personal
effects of traitors,” and in 1778, was an agent to look after “forfeited
estates.” In 1779, he was colonel of the Second Pennsylvania regiment.
He subscribed £1,000 in aid of the army in 1780; was collector of the
port of Philadelphia; a member of the Society of the Cincinnati, and
occupied other honorable positions in life.

John Hamilton, “an Irish servant-man,” was a Redemptioner or indentured
servant who, in 1752, was held by Henry Caldwell of Chester County, Pa.
Hamilton ran away that year and Caldwell advertised to recover him.
Hamilton was then about twenty-two years of age. Caldwell offered a
reward to “whoever takes up said servant, so that his master may have
him again.” Mention of the incident is found in Karl Frederick Geiser’s
recent work on _Redemptioners and Indentured Servants in the Colony and
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania_.

George Taylor, one of the Irish signers of the Declaration of
Independence, was born in the Old Land, in 1716. He came to this country
when twenty years of age. Having a good education, he advanced from the
occupation of laborer in an iron foundry to the position of clerk;
married his employer’s widow, and accumulated a generous fortune. He was
a member of the Pennsylvania Assembly for five consecutive years. In
1770, he was made a judge of the Northumberland County Court, Pa., and
was elected to Congress in 1776.

One of the first settlers of Waterford, Conn., was Thomas Butler. He and
John Butler were there about 1681. Rev. James H. O’Donnell, now of
Norwalk, Conn., says that the “name of Waterford was, no doubt, given to
their new home in honor of the old, the beautiful city on the banks of
the Suir,” in Ireland. He thinks it not unreasonable to infer that the
founders of the Connecticut Waterford were Irish Catholics. Thomas
Butler died in 1701, aged 59 years. John Butler died in 1733, aged 80
years. Thomas was, therefore, born about 1642, and John about 1653.

William Hibbins came from Ireland to Boston, Mass., on the _Mary and
John_, about 1634. He married Mrs. Anne Moore, a widow, whose brother,
Richard Bellingham, was governor of Massachusetts. Mr. Hibbins died in
1654. His wife fell a victim to the witch-hunting fanatics of the period
and was hanged by order of the Massachusetts authorities, in 1656. No
jury could be found to convict her and she suffered death at the hands
of the General Court. She bequeathed her property to her two sons, in
County Cork, Ireland, John and Joseph Moore. (See Cullen’s _Story of the
Irish in Boston_.)

Molly Pitcher, “a young Irishwoman” having “a handsome, piercing eye,”
was the wife of a cannoneer in the Patriot army during the Revolution.
At the battle of Monmouth her husband was killed at his post, whereupon
Molly, who was engaged bringing water from a spring, dropped her bucket,
seized the rammer of the cannon and taking her husband’s place continued
to serve the piece of artillery. The next morning she was presented by
General Greene to Washington, who praised her heroism and made her a
sergeant. She was placed upon the list of half-pay officers for life.

Anthony Gulliver, a native of Ireland, was born in 1619. He died at
Milton, Mass., 1706. His children were: Lydia, born 1651; Samuel, born
1653; Jonathan, born 1659; Stephen, born 1663; John, born 1669;
Elizabeth, born 1671; Nathaniel, born 1675. There were also two other
children, Hannah and Mary. The children were all born in this country,
Cullen’s _Story of the Irish in Boston_ states that “Anthony Gulliver
was the ancestor of a large number of able and influential men and
women, who have been prominent in the history of church and town affairs
of Milton for nearly two hundred years.”

From the _Calendar of Colonial State Papers_: “April 1st, 1653. Order of
the Council of State. For a license to Sir John Clotworthy to transport
to America 500 natural Irishmen.” On Oct. 3, 1655, it was ordered that
“1000 Irish girls and the like number of boys of 14 years or under,” be
sent to Jamaica, “the allowance to each one not to exceed 20 shillings.”
May 22, 1656, an order was adopted “for the transportation of 1200 men
from Knockfergus in Ireland and Port Patrick in Scotland to Jamaica.”
(Quoted by Rev. James H. O’Donnell in his _History of the Diocese of
Hartford_, Conn.)

A Rhode Island soldier, Patrick Tracy, participated with Montgomery in
the assault on Quebec. He was of the company of Capt. Simeon Thayer of
Providence, R. I., and was killed in the assault just mentioned.
Cornelius Hagerty and Corporal James Hayden of the company were wounded.
In a work on this invasion of Canada, reference is made to John M.
Taylor, “keen as an Irish greyhound,” who was Arnold’s purveyor and
commissary in the wilderness. Mention is also made of Lieut. William
Cross, “a handsome little Irishman, always neatly dressed,” who
commanded, on the Isle of Orleans, a detachment of some twenty men.

Among the land patents granted in New York under the English colonial
government, was one to David Mooney, 1765. The tract was located in
Washington County and comprised 2,000 acres. It was known as the Mooney
patent. The Otsego patent, 100,000 acres, was granted to George Croghan
and ninety-nine others, in 1769. Croghan is also mentioned in connection
with other patents. Michael Byrne and others were granted the Stony Hill
Tract, 18,000 acres, in 1768. It was located in Schoharie County. The
Adaquataugie patent, 26,000 acres, in Otsego County, was granted in 1770
to Sir William Johnson, an Irishman, and others.

The rolls of the Third New York Regiment of the Line, during the
Revolution, contain a large number of Irish names. They include Brady,
Brannon, Burke, Burns, Butler, Condon, Connolly, Dempsey, Doherty, Dunn,
Flynn, Garvey, Geraghty, Gillaspy, Hickey, Hogan, Kelly, Lyon, McCarty,
McConnelly, McCord, McCormick, McCoy, McDermot, McGinnis, McGown,
McGuire, Mackey, McLaughlin, McNeal, McQuin, Madden, Mahan, Moloy,
Moore, Morris, Morrison, Mulholand, Murray, O’Connoley, Quigley, Riley,
Ryan, Sullivan, Sweeny, Tobin, Wall, Welch and others. (Vide _New York
in the Revolution_, by Comptroller James A. Roberts, Albany, 1898.)

Among Irish names found in Connecticut at early periods may be mentioned
Brian Rosseter, Windsor, 1639; Thomas Dunn, New Haven, 1647; Lawrence
Ward, Branford, 1654; Thomas Welch, Milford, 1654; John Mead, Stamford,
1656; Richard Hughes, New Haven, 1659; Edward Fanning, Mystic, 1662;
Thomas Ford, Windsor, 1669; Richard Butler, Stratford, 1669; Hugh
Griffin, Stratford, 1669; William Meade, New London, 1669; Thomas Sha
(Shea), Sr., Stonington, 1669; Thomas Tracy, Norwich, 1669; Timothy
Ford, New Haven, 1669; Jeremiah Blake, New London, 1681; James Kelly,
New London, 1682; Owen McCarty, New London, 1693.

Gen. Walter Stewart, a Pennsylvania officer of the Revolution, was born
in Ireland, about 1756. He settled in Philadelphia, Pa., espoused the
cause of the Patriots, and in 1776 was commissioned captain. He was made
an aide-de-camp to General Gates the same year. In 1777, Stewart was
commissioned colonel of the Pennsylvania State Regiment of Foot, took
part in the battles of Brandywine and Germantown, and retired in 1786
with the rank of brevet brigadier-general. In 1794, he was major-general
of Pennsylvania state troops. General Washington was godfather to his
eldest son. (Campbell’s _History of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick_,
Philadelphia.)

The Marquis de Chastellux in a tour through Connecticut, 1780, stopped
at Litchfield. His host there was a Mr. Philips. The latter was, the
Marquis tells us, “an Irishman transplanted to America, where he has
already made a fortune; he appears to be a man skillful and adroit; he
speaks with caution to strangers, and fears to compromise himself; for
the rest he is of a gayer mood than the Americans, even a little of a
joker, a kind but little known in America.” (From _Voyages de M. Le
Marquis de Chastellux dans L’Amerique, Septentrionale les annees 1780,
1781 and 1782_; quoted by Rev. James H. O’Donnell in his _History of the
Diocese of Hartford_.)

A prominent merchant in Philadelphia, Pa., at one period, was James
Caldwell. He was a native of Ireland. He was a patriot of the
Revolution, a member of the First City Troop, Philadelphia, and took
part with it in the campaign of 1776–’77. Campbell’s _History of the
Friendly Sons of St. Patrick_, Philadelphia, says that he was “one of
the six volunteers of the Troop who accompanied Colonel Reed on December
30, 1776, from Trenton to reconnoitre the advanced posts of the enemy,
and who captured twelve British soldiers during that expedition.” In
1780, Caldwell subscribed £2,000 to the bank that was organized to
supply the Continental army with provisions.

Rev. Mr. Lyons, an Irish clergyman of the Church of England, who was
located in Derby, Conn., was subjected to great abuse there because of
his nationality. Writing to London, May 8, 1744, he says: “As soon as
they had advice of my appointment, and from what country I came, and,
indeed, before I arrived among them, they abused me, calling me ‘an
Irish Teague and Foreigner,’ with many other reflections of an
uncivilized and unchristian kind. It would be too tedious to record all
the abuse and insults I have received in Derby.” (_Church Documents of
the Protestant Episcopal Church_, quoted by Rev. James H. O’Donnell in
his _History of the Diocese of Hartford_.)

Patrick Ward, a lieutenant, was one of the defenders of Fort Griswold,
Conn., during the Revolution. The fort was attacked by the British
during the raid conducted by Arnold, the traitor, and after a gallant
resistance was captured by the enemy. The atrocities committed upon the
surrendered and helpless garrison, by the British, constitutes one of
the blackest chapters in the history of warfare. The event has ever
since been known as the “Massacre of Fort Griswold.” Ward was one of the
victims. On a stone over his grave was placed this inscription: “In
memory of Mr. Patrick Ward who fell a victim to British cruelty in Fort
Griswold, Sept. 6th, 1781, in the 25th year of his age.”

Felt’s _Ecclesiastical History of New England_ mentions William Collins
who, about 1640, accompanied a party of refugees from the West Indies to
what is now New Haven, Conn. After a time these wayfarers dispersed “and
some returned to Ireland.” Collins afterwards taught school at Hartford,
Conn., and subsequently wedded a daughter of Anne Hutchinson who with
her family had been banished from Boston, Mass., by the intolerant
Boston church, because of her religious views. She took up her residence
on the island of Rhode Island. Later, the family removed to territory
under Dutch jurisdiction, where Mrs. Hutchinson, her son and her
son-in-law (Collins) were killed by the Indians.

An interesting tradition is told concerning George Berkeley, “the
Kilkenny scholar,” Anglican dean of Derry, and later bishop of Cloyne.
The tradition relates to his arrival at Newport, R. I., in 1729, and is
thus narrated: “The captain of the ship in which he and his party sailed
could not find the island of Bermuda, and having given up the search for
it, steered northward until they discovered land unknown to them and
supposed to be inhabited by savages. On making a signal, however, two
men came on board from Block Island, in the character of pilots, who on
inquiry informed them that the harbor of Newport was near.” The
tradition may be founded on fact, but opinions vary concerning it.

John Mease, born in County Tyrone, Ireland, became a shipping merchant
in Philadelphia, Pa., and was a patriot of the Revolution. He was with
the force that crossed the Delaware with Washington on the night of Dec.
25, 1776, and surprised the Hessians at Trenton. On another occasion he
was of a detail told-off to keep the fires along the American front
burning while the patriots secretly moved in another direction to fall
upon the British at Princeton. On one occasion during the war Mease
subscribed £4,000 in aid of the Patriot cause. He was affectionately
spoken of in his old age as “The last of the cocked hats,” on account of
his continuing to wear the three-cornered hat of the Revolution.

Count Arthur Dillon, commander of the Irish-French regiment of Dillon
during the American Revolution, perished by the guillotine in Paris, a
victim to the Terror. The regiment of Dillon formed part of the Irish
brigade in the service of France, and was a most historic corps. It
dated its organization back to the previous century. Count Dillon, above
mentioned, came with his regiment to America with our French allies and
rendered valiant service. He took part in the capture from the British
of St. Eustache, Tobago and St. Christopher, participated in the attack
on Savannah and in the siege and capture of Yorktown. He became a
brigadier and marechal-de-camp, and, in 1792, was in command of a
division in the French army.

In 1743 there was born in Dublin, Ireland, a boy who was destined to
take a prominent part in the American Revolution. He was Richard Butler.
He came to this country, espoused the Patriot cause, and attained
distinction as a soldier. His ability was early recognized by Congress
and, 1776, he was appointed major. In 1777 he was commissioned colonel
of the Fifth Pennsylvania; was an officer of Morgan’s Rifle Corps, and
took part in the battles of Bemis’ Heights and Stillwater; was made
colonel of the Ninth Pennsylvania; commanded the Americans at the
storming of Stony Point; participated in the siege and capture of
Yorktown. He attained the rank of major-general and was second in
command of St. Clair’s army for operations against the Indians. He was
killed in battle by an Indian, 1791.

“Thomas the Irishman” is mentioned in the Dutch records of New York.
Thus, Hon. Peter Stuyvesant, Director-General of New Netherland, writing
to Capt. Martin Cregier, 1663, says: “Your letter by Thomas the Irishman
has just been received.” ... On Aug. 5, 1663, Captain Cregier writes in
his journal: “Thomas the Irishman arrived here at the Redoubt from the
Manhatans.” On Sept. 1, 1663, Captain Cregier writes: “Thomas the
Irishman and Claesje Hoorn arrived with their yachts at the Kill from
the Manhatans,” and on the 17th of the same month the captain writes:
“Thomas the Irishman arrived today.” The foregoing references may be
found in _Documents Relating to the Colonial History of the State of New
York_, edited by Fernow, Vol. XIII, Albany, 1881.

The first president of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, New York City,
1784, was Daniel McCormick, a native of Ireland. He came to this country
prior to the Revolution, and amassed a large fortune, was one of the
first directors of the Bank of New York, and was associated with William
Constable and Alexander Macomb, two Irishmen, in extensive land
enterprises. Barrett’s _Old Merchants of New York_ states that “Mr.
McCormick was a glorious example of the old New Yorker,” and “stuck to
short breeches and white stockings and buckles to the last.” He was a
great entertainer, “gave good dinner parties, and had choice old wines
upon the table.” He is also mentioned “as one of the most polished
gentlemen of the city.” He “was the last occupant of a first-class
dwelling on Wall Street, since devoted wholly to business.”

From the records of the selectmen, Boston, Mass., May 4, 1723: “Whereas
great numbers of Persons haue [have] very lately bin Transported from
Ireland into this Province, many of which by Reason of the Present
Indian war and the Accedents befalling them, Are now Resident in this
Town whose Circomstances and Condition are not known, Some of which if
due care be not taken may become a Town Charge or be otherwise
prejuditial to the wellfair & Prosperity of the Place, for Remady
whereof Ordered That Every Person now Resident here, that hath within
the Space of three years last past bin brought from Ireland, or for the
future Shal come from thence hither, Shal come and enter his name and
Occupation with the Town Clerk, and if marryed the number and Age of his
Children and Servants, within the Space of fiue [five] dayes, on pain of
forfeiting and paying the Sum of twenty Shillings for Each offence***.”

Matthew Lyon, “the Hampden of Congress,” was born in County Wicklow,
Ireland, 1750. He came to this country in 1765; located in Connecticut,
and later in Vermont; participated with Ethan Allen in the capture of
Ticonderoga from the British; became adjutant of Col. Seth Warner’s
regiment; served under General Montgomery in the campaign against
Canada, 1775; became paymaster, with the rank of captain, in Warner’s
regiment; took part in the battles of Bennington and Saratoga; became
commissary-general of militia, with the rank of colonel; was a member of
the State Legislature and judge of Rutland County, Vt.; member of
Congress from Vermont from 1797 to 1801; cast the vote that made Thomas
Jefferson president of the United States; removed to Kentucky and
represented that state in Congress from 1803 to 1811.

Sarah W. Alexander, who wedded Christopher R. Perry of Rhode Island,
became the mother of Oliver H. Perry—best known as Commodore Perry—who
defeated the British in the naval battle on Lake Erie. She was a native
of Newry, Ireland, and was born in 1768. Mackenzie, in his _Life of
Commodore Perry_, just mentioned, says that her friends in Ireland “Had
been involved in the Irish rebellion. She herself, had felt a lively
interest in the cause of liberty, and had listened with deep interest to
every account she had heard of battles and skirmishes in the
neighborhood. She took a pleasure in recounting ... the achievements of
her countrymen and always insisted that they were the bravest people in
the world. These narratives fired the mind of Oliver and created a
desire in him to pursue the profession of arms.” Oliver received much of
his early education from “Old Master” Kelly, an Irish school teacher at
Tower Hill, R. I.

From the records of the selectmen, Boston, Mass., Aug. 16, 1736: “mr.
James Wimble Informs That Capt. Benedict Arnold who just arrived from
Cork with Passengers, came to his House yesterday, being Lord’s day in
the afternoon, bringing with him the following Persons, Viz^t. Mr.
Benj^a. Ellard, Gent, and his Wife and Three Children, and a Maid
Servant, Joseph Atkins, John Clark, John Seley, Thomas Morgan, James
Ellard, John Ellard, Benjamin Gillam, Elizabeth Ellard and William Neal.
Accordingly the Master Capt. Arnold was sent for Who appear’d and gave
Information, That he came from Ireland about Twelve Weeks ago, and that
he is Bound to Philadelphia with his Passengers, Who in all, are one
Hundred and Twenty, Hopes to Sail in a few days, as soon as he can
Recruit with Water and Provisions, and Promises That the Passengers
which came ashore Yesterdy shall repair aboard again to day, The Ships
name is the Prudent Hannah.”

Gen. William Irvine of the Revolution was born near Enniskellen, County
Fermanagh, Ireland, 1741. He came to America in 1764, and settled at
Carlisle, Pa. He espoused the patriot cause, raised and commanded the
Sixth Pennsylvania regiment; commanded a brigade at the battle of
Monmouth, and when Lee’s troops were retreating, they so impeded the
advance of this gallant Irishman’s brigade that he threatened to charge
through them before he could make his way to take an advanced position.
Irvine was made a brigadier-general in May, 1779, and was assigned to
the command of the Second brigade of the Pennsylvania Line; later he
became a member of the State Council of Censors; member of the
Continental Congress; senior major-general of Pennsylvania State troops;
a presidential elector; in charge of United States military stores at
Philadelphia. He was a member of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick,
Philadelphia. (_Vide_ Campbell’s _History of the Friendly Sons of St.
Patrick_.)

William Constable was born in Dublin, Ireland, 1752; a patriot of the
Revolution; joined the Continental army as an aide to Lafayette;
prominent as a merchant in Philadelphia, Pa.; married Ann White, a
schoolmate of the wife of General Washington; removed to New York City
in 1784; also very prominent there; associated in business with Robert
Morris and Governeur Morris, the firm being known as Constable & Co.;
engaged in huge land speculations, purchasing large tracts in New York,
Ohio, Kentucky, Virginia, and Georgia; bought in 1787, with Alexander
Macomb, a tract of 640,000 acres in New York, Constable’s share being
192,000 acres; in 1791, he and Alexander Macomb and Daniel McCormick
purchased a tract, in New York, of some 4,000,000 acres, or about a
tenth part of the whole state. This purchase comprised the “whole of the
present counties of Lewis, Jefferson, St. Lawrence and Franklin, with
parts of Oswego and Herkimer.” On one occasion, about 1797, Constable
lent $1,000 to the fugitive Duke of Orleans in this country, which loan
was afterwards repaid by Louis Philippe. Constable was a member of the
Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, Philadelphia, and of the Hibernian Society
of that city. He was president of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, New
York City, in 1789–’90 and in 1795.




                        MEMOIR OF MATHEW CAREY.

                       BY HENRY CAREY BAIRD.[14]


Mathew Carey, the Philadelphia publisher, was born in the city of
Dublin, Ireland, on the 28th of January, 1760. His father, Christopher
Carey, at one time in the British navy, was subsequently an extensive
contractor for the army, through which means he achieved an
independence.

The son early evinced a passion for the acquisition of knowledge, and in
addition to some familiarity with Latin, soon became proficient in
French, without the assistance of a master. To do this, however, he
studied as much as fifteen or sixteen hours a day, hardly allowing
himself time for his meals. The peculiar orthography of his Christian
name as rendered by himself, “Mathew,” and not “Matthew,” was the result
of a philological discussion with one of his brothers, when quite a
young man, and his then arriving at a belief that from its derivation
this was the correct mode of spelling it.

When about fifteen years of age it became necessary for Mathew to choose
a trade. He was decidedly in favor of that of printer and bookseller,
which were then generally united. His father had a strong aversion to
the trade, and refused to look out a master for him, which he did for
himself, and he was accordingly apprenticed to a printer and bookseller
of the name of McDonnel. A lameness which took place owing to the
carelessness of his nurse when he was about a year old, and which
continued throughout life, was a constant drawback to him, and
interfered greatly with him in his career.

His first essay as a writer was when he was about seventeen years old,
and was on the subject of dueling, which he condemned with great
severity—the occasion being the attempt of a bookseller in Dublin to
bring about a duel between an apprentice of his own and one of
McDonnel’s. As will be seen, however, after he came to the United
States, Mr. Carey was himself a principal, and was wounded in a duel.

His next attempt at authorship was one which involved most serious
consequences to himself, and drove him into exile. Having directed his
attention to the oppressions under which the Irish Catholics stood, and
having read every book and pamphlet on the subject which he could
procure, and with his mind filled with their sufferings, and his
indignation aroused, he, in 1779, wrote a pamphlet entitled _The Urgent
Necessity of an Immediate Repeal of the whole Penal Code against the
Roman Catholics, Candidly Considered; to which is added an inquiry into
the prejudices against them; being an appeal to the Roman Catholics of
Ireland, exciting them to a just sense of their civil and religious
rights as citizens of a free nation_.

When nearly ready it was advertised for publication in a few days, with
the title page and its mottoes, and the attention of the public was
called to it by an address, couched in very strong language, and wherein
reference was made to the fact that “America by a desperate effort has
nearly emancipated herself from slavery.” It excited considerable alarm.
Parliament was then in session, and the advertisement was brought before
both houses. The publication was denounced by an association of Roman
Catholics, which, as Mr. Carey has asserted, “partook of the general
depression and servile spirit, which a long course of oppression
uniformly produces.”

This association offered a reward for the apprehension of the author,
and engaged lawyers to carry on the prosecution in case of discovery.
The authorship having become known to Mr. Carey’s father, was to him a
cause of great alarm, and efforts were made to appease the wrath of the
committee, and induce them to abandon the prosecution by an offer to
destroy the entire edition. This was of no avail, and after being
concealed for some days, Mr. Carey got on board of a Holyhead packet and
proceeded to Paris.

He carried with him a letter of introduction to a Catholic priest, by
whom he was introduced to Dr. Franklin, then the American Minister to
the French Court, and who had a small printing office at Passy for the
purpose of printing his dispatches from America. In this office Mr.
Carey was employed while this work lasted. Afterwards he found a
position with the celebrated publisher, Didot, who was then printing
some English books. While at Passy he made the acquaintance of the
Marquis de Lafayette—whose friendship at a subsequent period became one
of the most controlling influences of his future career.

In about twelve months he returned to Dublin, and the remainder of his
apprenticeship having been purchased from McDonnel, he engaged for a
time as the conductor of a paper called the _Freeman’s Journal_.
Finally, on the 13th of October, 1783, his father furnished him with the
means to establish a new paper called the _Volunteers’ Journal_. For
this work, he says, he was “miserably qualified,” although he had “a
superabundance of zeal and ardor, and a tolerable knack and facility of
scribbling.” He adds: “The paper, as might have been expected, partook
largely of the character of its proprietor and editor. Its career was
enthusiastic and violent. It suited the temper of the times, exercised a
decided influence on public opinion; and, in very short time, had a
greater circulation than any other paper in Dublin, except the _Evening
Post_, which had the great merit of calling into existence that glorious
band of brothers, the Volunteers of Ireland, whose zeal and determined
resolution to assert and defend the rights of country, struck terror
into the British cabinet, and forced the ministry to knock off chains
that had bound down the nation for centuries.”

“_The Volunteers’ Journal_, fanning the flame of patriotism which
pervaded the land,” says Mr. Carey, “excited the indignation of the
government, which formed a determination to put it down, if possible. A
prosecution had for a considerable time been contemplated—and, at
length, the storm which had so long threatened, burst, in consequence of
a publication which appeared on the 5th of April, 1784, in which the
Parliament in general, and more particularly the Premier, were severely
attacked.”

Accordingly, on the 7th of the same month, a motion was made in the
Irish House of Commons, for an address to the Lord Lieutenant,
requesting the apprehension of Mathew Carey. He was arrested on the
11th, and on the 19th was taken before the House of Commons, when
certain interrogatories were put to him, which he positively refused to
answer, on the ground that he was arrested by the civil power, and being
under prosecution for the supposed libel of the Premier, he was not
amenable to another tribunal. He preferred charges against the
Sergeant-at-Arms in whose custody he was. An exciting debate arose; the
Sergeant-at-Arms was justified by a large majority, and Mr. Carey was
committed to Newgate jail, Dublin, where he remained until the 14th of
May, when Parliament having adjourned, he was liberated by the Lord
Mayor. “During my stay there,” says Mr. Carey, “I had lived
joyously—companies of gentlemen occasionally dining with me on the
choicest luxuries the markets afforded.”

Although thus freed from the clutches of Parliament, the criminal
prosecution for libel of the Premier still stood suspended over his
head. In the then inflamed state of the public mind it would have been
impossible to procure a grand jury to find a true bill against him; but
the attorney-general filed a bill _ex-officio_ which dispensed with the
interposition of the grand jury. Mr. Carey’s means were, in a great
measure, exhausted; and, dreading the consequences of the prosecution
and a heavy fine and imprisonment, his friends thought it best for him
to leave his native country; and, “accordingly, on the 7th of September,
1784,” he says, “when I had not reached my 25th year, my pen drove me a
second time into exile.” He embarked on board the _America_, Captain
Keiler, and landed in Philadelphia on the 1st of November. He was
induced to select Philadelphia as his new home for the reason that he
had seen notices of his examination before the Irish House of Commons in
two Philadelphia papers. There his case was therefore known, and would
probably make him friends.

He had sold out his paper to his brother for £500, to be remitted as
soon as practicable, and he landed in Philadelphia with about a dozen
guineas in his pocket, without a relation or a friend, or even an
acquaintance, except those of the _America_. A most unlooked for
circumstance soon occurred which gave a new direction to his views and
changed the course of his future life. A fellow passenger of his had
brought letters of recommendation to General Washington, and having gone
to Mount Vernon to deliver them, he there met the Marquis de Lafayette.

The conversation turning upon the affairs of Ireland, the Marquis said
he had seen in the Philadelphia papers an account of Mr. Carey’s
troubles with the Parliament, and inquired what had become of the poor
persecuted Dublin printer, when he was informed that he was then in
Philadelphia. On the arrival of the Marquis in that city, he wrote to
Mr. Carey requesting him to call upon him. Mr. Carey then told him that
upon receipt of funds from home he proposed to establish a newspaper in
Philadelphia. Of this the Marquis approved, and promised to recommend
him to his friend, Robert Morris, and others. The next morning Mr. Carey
was greatly surprised at receiving a letter from the Marquis containing
$400. “This was the more extraordinary and liberal,” says Mr. Carey, “as
not a word had passed between us on the subject of giving or receiving,
borrowing or lending money.”

Nor was there a word in the letter about the inclosure. Mr. Carey went
to the lodgings of the Marquis, but found that he had left the city. He
wrote to him at New York expressing his gratitude in the strongest of
terms, and received a kind and friendly answer. “I have more than once
assumed, and I now repeat,” says Mr. Carey, “that I doubt whether in the
whole life of this (I had almost said) unparalleled man, there is to be
found anything which, all the circumstances of the case considered, more
highly elevates his character.”

Although this sum was in every sense of the word a gift, Mr. Carey
always considered it as a loan, payable to the Marquis’ countrymen,
according to the exalted sentiment of Dr. Franklin, who, when he gave a
bill for ten pounds to an Irish clergymen in distress in Paris, told him
to “pay the sum to any Americans he might find in distress, and thus
_let good offices go round_.” Mr. Carey paid the debt in full to
Frenchmen in want, and subsequently in addition discharged it to the
Marquis; the latter only accepting it upon the urgent solicitation of
the former.

On receiving this money, Mr. Carey at once issued proposals for the
publication of the _Pennsylvania Evening Herald_, and the first number
was accordingly published January 25, 1785. He received but £50 from the
sale of the _Volunteers’ Journal_, in Dublin, his brother having been
ruined partly by the persecutions of the government, and partly by the
establishment of an opposition paper of the same name under government
patronage. The success of the _Evening Herald_ was not very great, and
the means of the publisher being small, on the 25th of March he took two
partners, and enlarged the paper. It, however, made but poor progress
until Mr. Carey, in August following, commenced the publication of the
Debates in the House of Assembly, a great novelty and innovation which
gave the _Herald_ an advantage over all its contemporaries.

Party feeling in Pennsylvania ran very high at the time, and in the
course of a political controversy, he became involved in a quarrel with
Col. Eleazer Oswald, who had been an officer of artillery during the
Revolutionary War; and this difficulty resulted in a duel which took
place in January, 1786, in New Jersey, opposite to Philadelphia, in
which Mr. Carey was wounded in the thigh, from the effects of which he
did not entirely recover for many months. He, subsequently to the duel,
greatly disgusted his second and others, by performing, as he says, “a
gratuitous act of justice, which was probably one of the best acts of my
life”—that of publishing a card retracting the charges he had made
against Colonel Oswald.

In October, 1786, in partnership with five others, he commenced the
publication of the _Columbian Magazine_, to the first number of which he
contributed four pieces, one of which, “A Philosophical Dream,” was an
anticipation of the state of the country in 1850, in which, strange as
these predictions must have seemed at the time, are now quite remarkable
in their realization. In December, 1786, owing to the difficulty of
realizing profits from so many partners and other causes, he withdrew.
In January, 1787, he issued the first number of the _American Museum_, a
magazine intended to preserve the fugitive essays that appeared in the
newspapers. This publication, sets of which, in 12 volumes, 8vo, now
exist in a number of public and private libraries, is one of great
value, and presents a graphic and truthful record of the times. It was
issued for six years, and brought to a close in December, 1792, after a
hard struggle for life.

About this time he married Miss Bridget Flahavan, the daughter of a
highly respectable citizen of Philadelphia who had been ruined by the
Revolution. Mr. Carey’s wife was an industrious, prudent, economical
woman, with, as he says, a large fund of good sense, but, equally with
himself, without means. The match was, as he acknowledges, imprudent;
but he and his wife determined to indulge in no unnecessary expense, and
they carried out this resolution faithfully, even when he was doing a
business of $40,000 to $50,000 per annum, and with the happiest results.

When he relinquished the _American Museum_, he commenced bookselling and
printing on a small scale. His store, or rather shop, was of very
moderate dimensions; but, small as it was, he had not full-bound books
enough to fill the shelves—a considerable portion of them being filled
with spelling books. He procured a credit at bank, which enabled him to
extend his business; and by care, indefatigable industry, the most rigid
punctuality and frugality, he gradually advanced in the world. For
twenty-five years, winter and summer, he was always present at the
opening of his store.

In 1793 he was a member of the Committee of Health, appointed for the
relief of the sick by yellow fever, and of the orphans made such by it.
The duties of this position were faithfully and calmly fulfilled, “and
his whole life,” says Prof. R. E. Thompson, “corresponded to the promise
of that year.” He subsequently wrote a full account of this epidemic, of
which four editions were published. Stephen Girard, who was one of the
members of this committee, as Mr. Carey says, “to the inexpressible
delight” of the members, volunteered his services, and became
superintendent of the yellow fever hospital on Bush Hill.

In 1792, or ’93, feeling for the sufferings and wretchedness of the
numerous Irish immigrants who arrived in Philadelphia, he called a
meeting, at the Coffee House, of a number of the most influential and
prominent Irishmen, and submitted to the meeting a constitution, which
he had prepared, and which was adopted, and thus was formed “The
Hibernian Society for the Relief of Emigrants from Ireland.” This
society exists at the present day in a highly flourishing condition. In
1796 he zealously engaged with a few other citizens in the formation of
a Sunday-school Society, of which Bishop White became president.

Between 1796 and ’98 he became involved in a very acrimonious
controversy with William Cobbett, which was not of his seeking, but
which he conducted with unflinching courage and ability. In addition to
a considerable correspondence between them, the war became one of
pamphlets and newspapers—Cobbett using his _Porcupine Gazette_. Mr.
Carey issued a pamphlet entitled _A Plum Pudding for Peter Porcupine_,
in which he says he “handled him with great severity.” He next published
_The Porcupiniad, a Hudibrastic Poem_, in which he turned some of
Cobbett’s own paragraphs into Hudibrastic verse, and “it is wonderful,”
he says, “how smoothly they ran, in many instances, with the alteration
of a single word or two.” Cobbett made no reply, and never after had Mr.
Carey’s name in his paper but once or twice incidentally. This ended the
controversy, and subsequently they became very good friends.

His publishing business was pushed with wonderful energy, and for those
days on a grand scale. He has stated that for many years he was involved
in such financial difficulties and embarrassments that he was “oppressed
and brought to the verge of bankruptcy,” which “nothing but the most
untiring efforts and indefatigable industry and energy could have
enabled me to wade through.” These difficulties were brought about, he
says, by his own folly in over-trading. A few figures in regard to his
publications will give an idea how these difficulties arose. For
instance, he printed 2,500 copies of _Guthrie’s Geography_, 4to, with a
folio atlas of 40 or 50 maps, price, $12; 3,000 _Goldsmith’s Animated
Nature_, 4 volumes, 8vo, illustrated with a large number of plates,
price $10. In 1801 he published 3,000 copies of a 4to edition of the
Bible, with additional references, for which he paid an editor $1,000.
This book was prepared by the collation of eighteen different editions
of the Bible, in which the most extraordinary number of discrepancies
were detected. Soon after the publication of this edition, the success
of which was very great, he embarked in the preparation of a standing
edition of the 4to Bible. Stereotyping had not been invented, and for
this volume he purchased the entire type which was kept permanently
standing. About this time he purchased, for $7,000, a school Bible, and
also a large house in Market Street, in which he lived for many years.
In 1802 he was elected by the Senate of Pennsylvania a director in the
Bank of Pennsylvania, which added greatly to his financial resources.

In 1801, induced by the advantages to literature which had resulted from
the fairs of Frankfort and Leipsic, he formed the project of
establishing a literary fair in this country, to meet alternately at New
York and Philadelphia. He accordingly issued a circular dated December,
1801, inviting all publishers and booksellers to meet in New York on the
1st of June, 1802, for the purpose of buying, selling and exchanging
their publications. He wrote out a constitution, which was adopted, and
a society formed with Hugh Gaine, the oldest bookseller in the United
States, as president. The plan worked well for a year or two, but it was
found that country booksellers published inferior editions of popular
works, with which, by means of exchanges, they flooded the country. It
was therefore abandoned.

In 1806, being then a member of the Select Council of the City of
Philadelphia, he united with Stephen Girard and others to relieve real
estate of a portion of its taxes, by transferring it to personal
property, when he published a pamphlet on examination of the existing
system of taxation in that city, but with no results. In 1810, when the
question of the renewal of the charter of the Bank of the United States,
which was to expire on the following March, came up, he took an active
and earnest part in its favor, neglecting his business for three months,
and publishing a series of essays on the subject. Nearly all the
Democrats of the city were opposed to this, and he made himself hosts of
enemies by his course.

The publication of _The Olive Branch_, which was made at a critical
period in the history of the country, proved to be one of the most
successful books up to that time ever issued from the American press,
and he regarded its preparation as one of the most important events in
his life. The War of 1812–’15, between the United States and Great
Britain, had developed such an acrimonious state of feeling between
parties in the country, as to appear to forebode civil war. In
September, 1814, Mr. Carey, in a “moment of ardent zeal and enthusiasm,
was seized with a desire to make an effort by a candid publication of
the numerous errors and follies on both sides to allay the public
effervescence, and calm the embittered feelings of the parties.”

Hence, he began the preparation of _The Olive Branch_, September 18, and
the book was through the press November 6th, and was published on the
8th. It was a volume of 252 pages, 12mo. The edition of 500 copies was
sold within a few weeks, and it was revised and enlarged from time to
time, and in three and a half years ten editions were sold, amounting to
10,000 copies. “A greater sale probably,” as he has said, “than any book
ever had in this country, except some religious ones,” up to that time.
He gave permission to several parties to print the book, without payment
of copyright, and editions were printed at Boston, Mass., Middlebury,
Vt., and Winchester, Va.

In 1818 he set laboriously and seriously to work to prepare a
vindication of Ireland. Accordingly, in the following year, he published
_Vindiciæ Hibernicæ; or, Ireland Vindicated_, of which a second edition
was published in 1823. This is a large 8vo volume involving great
research.

Early in 1819, struck with the prevailing condition of the United
States, he commenced writing on political economy, investigating the
causes, and pointing out the necessity for protecting our industries
against foreign competition. Few men ever enlisted in any public cause
with more enthusiasm, few ever worked with more energy and industry in
such a cause. He was one of the founders of the Philadelphia Society for
the Promotion of National Industry; he attended conventions in various
parts of the country, and he made more extensive contributions to the
literature of the subject than any other man had then done on this
continent.

Some idea may be formed of the extent of this work when it is stated
that between 1819 and 1833 his books and pamphlets on this question
reached an aggregate of 2,322 pages. To no other man, not in public
life, was the first protective tariff of 1824, as well as that more
protective one of 1828, due. These were results which would have exerted
a permanent influence on the country but for the nullification movement
of South Carolina and Georgia.

This latter movement produced Clay’s Compromise Tariff Act of 1833,
which was only abandoned in 1842 in the midst of a bankruptcy so
widespread and universal that it involved not merely individuals and
banks and other corporations, but state governments, and even the
government of the United States itself. Mr. Carey was much discouraged
by the illiberal conduct of manufacturers and others who had much at
stake in the cause, and he ever after believed that to this illiberality
and supineness was due the triumph of nullification, for it did triumph
in the enactment of the Compromise Tariff, Act of 1833.

However, amid these discouragements, he derived some consolation from a
recognition of his services by a portion of his fellow countrymen. In
1821 he was presented by citizens of Wilmington, Del., with a handsome
piece of silver plate bearing the following inscription: “A tribute of
gratitude to Mathew Carey, Esq., in approbation of his writings on
political economy; presented by some friends of National Industry, in
Wilmington, Del., and its vicinity, April, 1821.” In 1834 he was
presented with a service of plate by citizens of Philadelphia and
others, “as a testimonial of their respect for his public conduct and
their esteem for his private virtues”; who deemed his “whole career in
life an encouraging example, by the imitation of which, without the aid
of official station or political power, every private citizen may become
a public benefactor.” Sometime previously he received two silver
pitchers from other citizens of Philadelphia.

In 1824 he was instrumental in reviving and carrying through the project
for the construction of the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal, which had
lain dormant from 1805. This undertaking involved weeks of labor, and of
personal solicitations for subscriptions.

In 1825 he retired permanently from business on a well-earned
competency, and the remaining years of his life were devoted to public
and philanthropic work, with an energy that never tired. Among his
correspondents were Washington, Franklin, Lafayette, Hamilton, John
Adams, Jefferson, Madison, Henry Clay, and hosts of others in public and
private life, during a period covering more than half a century. His
writings, a tolerably complete set of which is in possession of The
Library Company of Philadelphia, make nine large 8vo volumes.

He died in the city of Philadelphia on the 16th of September, 1839, in
the eightieth year of his age, universally respected, and his death was
mourned as a public loss. His remains were followed to the grave by
thousands of his fellow citizens. A venerable and distinguished
journalist, who had known him long and well, announced his death in the
following terms: “The friend of mankind is no more. Long and sincerely
will he be lamented, not in high places only, amid the pomp and
circumstance of grief, but in the solitary corner of the poor and the
friendless. Upon his grave honest tears will be shed. The orphan and the
widow will wander there, and, in the heart’s deepest accents, implore
the blessings of Heaven upon his departed soul.”

He was buried in St. Mary’s churchyard, Fourth Street, above Spruce,
Philadelphia. Mr. and Mrs. Carey had nine children, three of whom died
young. The remaining six were:

Maria, who died unmarried.

Henry Charles, who married, but died without issue.

Eliza Catharine, who married Thomas James Baird, a graduate of West
Point, who was lieutenant of artillery in the War of 1812.

Susan M., who died unmarried.

Frances A., who married Isaac Lea.

Edward L., who died unmarried.

Mathew Carey’s will mentions his sister, Margaret Burke, and his
deceased brother, John Carey. In Father Finotti’s work on Catholic
American Bibliography is given a list, somewhat incomplete, of Mathew
Carey’s works.




                          REVIEW OF THE YEAR.
  LEADING EVENTS IN THE CAREER OF THE SOCIETY, FOR 1905, OR OF SPECIAL
                        INTEREST TO THE MEMBERS.


 Jan. 2.    Among the mayors inaugurated in Massachusetts cities today
              were the following: Hon. Augustine J. Daly, Cambridge;
              Hon. James B. Casey, Lowell; Hon. Cornelius B. Lynch,
              Lawrence; Hon. John T. Coughlin, Fall River; Hon. M. F.
              Dwyer, Medford; Hon. Lawrence P. Reade, Woburn; and Hon.
              T. M. Connor, Northampton.

 Jan. 2.     The following mayors, among others, were inaugurated in
              Rhode Island cities today: Hon. Patrick J. Boyle, Newport;
              Hon. James H. Higgins, Pawtucket; and Hon. Thomas H.
              McNally, Central Falls.

 Jan. 12.   A meeting of the Council of the Society is held at the Hotel
              Manhattan, 42d Street and Madison Avenue, New York City.

 Jan. 12.   Thomas D. O’Brien, St. Paul, Minn., is today appointed
              insurance commissioner of Minnesota by Governor Johnson.

 Jan. 16.   Hon. Thomas H. Carter, a member of the Society, is today
              again elected United States senator from Montana.

 Jan. 24.   The annual meeting and dinner of the Society takes place at
              the Hotel Manhattan, New York City.

 Jan. 24.   Died today in Dorchester (Boston), Mass., Mary, the widow
              of Thomas O’Neil, a veteran of the Mexican and Civil
              wars. In view of the death of his widow, a few words
              regarding O’Neil will be of interest. He served bravely
              in the Mexican War, during which he distinguished
              himself by saving Franklin Pierce, afterwards president
              of the United States. Pierce was badly wounded, when
              O’Neil rescued him and taking him on his own horse,
              dashed away with him to a place of safety. In the home
              of Mrs. McFarlane, her daughter, where Mrs. O’Neil spent
              the latter part of her life, are two interesting
              testimonials of the bravery of O’Neil during the war.
              One is a Bible, the gift of President Pierce, with this
              inscription: “For the children of Sergeant Thomas
              O’Neil, who was in my military family during the war
              with Mexico, and by his courage and fidelity earning my
              confidence and affectionate regard. Franklin Pierce.
              Washington, D. C., May 22, 1853.” The other is a
              beautiful silk Mexican flag, finely worked and colored,
              which O’Neil captured. It was made in a convent. It now
              hangs over his portrait in the parlor. O’Neil promptly
              responded to Lincoln’s call for volunteers when the
              Civil War broke out. He received the distinction of
              being offered in one day two commissions, one from
              Governor Andrew of Massachusetts, as captain, and one
              from New York. He accepted the latter and as captain
              recruited and went to the front with a regiment which
              afterwards became part of Meagher’s Irish brigade. For
              his distinguished services on the field of battle he was
              promoted to the rank of major. He resigned in 1862, with
              the intention of returning to Boston to raise another
              company for the war, but a few days afterwards fell from
              his horse and died of his injuries.

 Jan. 28.   Dr. Patrick J. McGrath, a member of a prominent family
              in Dublin, Ireland, died today at Bellevue Hospital,
              New York. He sailed on one of the Peary expeditions to
              the Polar regions, as medical adviser; enlisted in a
              volunteer regiment during the war with Spain, and also
              served throughout the Philippine campaign. Shortly
              before his death he had received from Washington, D.
              C., an appointment as surgeon in the canal zone in
              Panama.

 Jan. 28.   The _Irish-American_, New York City, of this date, has the
              following: “President Roosevelt in sending some details of
              his Irish pedigree to the American-Irish Historical
              Society ... has made known some information not generally
              current, though often desired. To his credit be it said,
              that he always was proud of his Irish blood, and from the
              very outset of his public career, years ago, vaunted it as
              one of his most cherished possessions. He has been
              following this up by the nomination to public office of
              candidates with decidedly Hibernian patronymics. W. D.
              Murphy of this city, it is said, is to be the new
              Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, and a diplomat named
              O’Brien, from the Northwest, is to be sent as Minister to
              Denmark. ‘Think of old Brian, war’s mighty lion,’ who
              smote the Danes at Clontarf and drove them into the sea,
              looking down from his celestial mansion above and seeing
              one of his descendants made ambassador to his old enemies
              from the greatest nation of the world, a nation to the
              prosperity and prestige of which his countrymen have
              contributed so much! Mr. Roosevelt in his genealogical
              list included the O’Briens. He must have had some idea of
              the poetical and historical retributions of the case when
              he thought of one of the great Munster families for the
              Republic’s representative to Denmark.”

 Jan. 30.   Hon. Anthony M. Keiley, formerly chief justice of the
              International Court of Appeals at Cairo, Egypt, died on
              or about this date in France. He was a native of New
              Jersey and was about 69 years old. He was educated at
              the Randolph-Macon College in Virginia. After graduation
              he founded the _Norfolk Virginian_ and was also editor
              of the Petersburg _Index and News_. He first became
              prominent in the politics of Virginia in the campaign
              of 1881, when he was chairman of the Democratic state
              committee. He was also mayor of Richmond for one term
              and then became city attorney. It was while holding this
              office, in 1885, that he attracted the attention of
              President Cleveland, who appointed him minister to Italy
              to succeed William Waldorf Astor. The Italian government
              objected, however, to the appointment and it was
              cancelled. The president then appointed Mr. Keiley
              minister to Austria, but the government of that country
              also declared him _persona non grata_ on the ground that
              he held ultramontane views, which were offensive to a
              friendly government. This objection was not well received
              either in official circles here or among a large and
              influential class in Austria. The Austrian government
              then raised other objections. Secretary of State Bayard
              addressed a note to the Austrian government in which he
              spoke plainly on the unreasonableness of race and
              religious distinctions. He said that the appointment would
              be allowed to stand even though it resulted in a rupture
              of diplomatic relations between Austria and the United
              States. Mr. Keiley, however, saved the administration from
              further embarrassment by resigning. Afterward, President
              Cleveland appointed him to the International Court at
              Cairo, of which he became chief justice. His wife died in
              1902, and he was so greatly distressed over her loss that
              he resigned from the court and sought relief in travel.
              Mr. Keiley served twelve years as president of the Irish
              Catholic Benevolent Union.

 Feb. 3.     John C. Foley, a veteran of the Civil War, died today in
              Charleston, S. C., while on a business tour. His residence
              for some years past had been in New Orleans, La. He
              belonged to an old and widely respected Irish family
              favorably known in Kilkenny and Tipperary, members of
              which emigrated to this country in the early fifties and
              settled in South Brooklyn, N. Y., where some of them still
              reside. On the breaking out of the Civil War the deceased
              joined the Eighty-eighth Regiment, New York Volunteers, of
              Meagher’s Brigade, in which he was commissioned as first
              lieutenant in the company of which the late Maj. P. K.
              Horgan was then captain. He served with his command
              through all the engagements in which it participated, down
              to Burnside’s disastrous assault on the fortified lines of
              the Confederates at Fredericksburg, in which the Irish
              brigade, in the assault on Marye’s Heights, was so cut up
              that after the fight the New York regiments originally
              comprised in it could only muster, all told, between two
              and three hundred unwounded men. General Meagher applied
              to the war department to have the brigade temporarily
              relieved in order that its decimated ranks might be again
              recruited; but the reply of the secretary of that
              time,—who had never regarded the Irish organizations with
              favor,—was an order relieving Meagher of his command,
              consolidating the regiments into four companies, under a
              lieutenant-colonel, and mustering out the other surviving
              officers as supernumeraries.

 Feb. 6.    Michael Hicks, a member of the Society, died today at his
              residence in New York City.

 Feb. 7.    James A. Walsh died today in Lewiston, Me. He was a member
              of the Society.

 Feb. 9.    Hon. Carlton McCarthy, mayor of Richmond, Va., writes today,
              expressing his appreciation of “The great value and
              importance of the work” in which the Society is engaged.

 Feb. 11.   Rear Admiral John McGowan, U.S.N. (retired), is today
              admitted as a Life member of the Society. His father was
              born in Philadelphia, Pa., but his grandfather was born in
              Ireland.

 Feb. 11.   Brig.-Gen. Michael Cooney, U.S.A. (retired), is admitted to
              membership in the Society.

 Feb. 11.   Brig.-Gen. Peter Leary, Jr., U.S.A. (retired), writes
              expressing his appreciation of the work in which the
              Society is engaged.

 Feb. 16.   It is announced from Dublin, Ireland, that President
              Roosevelt has sent to Lady Gregory a contribution
              toward the purchase of Irish pictures for the Gallery
              of Modern Art which it is proposed to establish in
              Dublin. Lady Gregory has been appealing to Americans
              to assist in buying pictures lately exhibited at the
              Royal Hibernian Academy, and President Roosevelt, who
              sent the contribution “with great pleasure,” has
              written to her as follows: “I cordially sympathize
              with you in your efforts to keep such a collection of
              pictures in Dublin. It would be an important step
              toward giving Dublin the position it by right should
              have.”

 Feb. 19.   Gen. John M. Brennan, a well-known lawyer of Providence, R.
              I., died. He served on the staff of Governor Davis of
              Rhode Island as judge advocate general.

 Feb. 21.   Eugene M. O’Neill of Pittsburg, Pa., is admitted to the
              Society as a Life member.

 Feb. 22.   John T. Gibbons of New Orleans, La., is admitted to the
              Society as a Life member.

 Feb. 27.   William O’Herin of Parsons, Kansas, was today admitted to
              Life membership in the Society. He is superintendent of
              machinery and equipment of the Missouri, Kansas & Texas
              Railway.

 Feb. 27.   Gen. Richard A. Donnelly, quartermaster-general of the New
              Jersey National Guard, died today at Trenton. He was born
              at Richmond, Staten Island. He served two terms as mayor
              of Trenton.

 March.     John Hayes, of Manchester, N. H., a member of the Society,
              died this month.

 March 3.   Hon. W. Bourke Cockran, New York City, is admitted a Life
              member of the Society.

 March 6.   Among the nominations sent by President Roosevelt to the
              Senate today were the following: envoys extraordinary
              and ministers plenipotentiary, Thomas J. O’Brien of
              Michigan, to Denmark; Edward C. O’Brien of New York, to
              Paraguay and Uruguay. For consuls general: Robert J.
              Wynne of Pennsylvania, at London, Eng.; T. St. John
              Gaffney of New York, at Dresden.

 March 6.   Hon. John H. Reagan, postmaster general of the Confederacy,
              died today at Palestine, Texas. He was the last surviving
              member of the Confederate cabinet.

 March 9.   A meeting of the Council of the Society is held today at the
              office of the City Trust Co., 36 Wall Street, New York
              City.

 March 10.  Most Rev. John J. Keane, D. D., of Dubuque, Ia., becomes a
              member of the Society.

 March 17.  Gen. Nelson A. Miles reviews the First Regiment, Irish
              Volunteers, at the Grand Central Palace, New York City,
              tonight.

 March 17.  Hon. Franklin M. Danaher of Albany, N. Y., a member of the
              Society, read an historical paper before the Friendly Sons
              of St. Patrick, in that city, tonight. His topic was: “An
              Historical Sketch of some Celebrations of St. Patrick’s
              Day in Albany, N. Y., in the Early Part of the Nineteenth
              Century.”

 March 17.  A monument was dedicated at Houston, Texas, today to the
              memory of Dick Dowling, the Confederate hero of Sabine
              Pass, who with a small company of men of Irish blood
              defeated, during the Civil War, a large Federal military
              and naval force.

 March 17.  President Roosevelt attends the dinner of the New York
              Friendly Sons of St. Patrick tonight.

 March 17.  The Charitable Irish Society, Boston, Mass., observes its
              168th anniversary.

 March 18.  Francis C. Travers of New York City, a member of the
              Society, died today.

 April 4.   Hon. E. F. Dunne is elected mayor of Chicago, Ill.

 April 9.   Michael Murphy, a pioneer oil man of central Wyoming, died
              at Casper, Wyo. He was one of the best known men in
              Wyoming. For twenty-five years he represented the oil
              interest in Fremont County, and recently sold the famous
              spouting oil wells at Dallas to a syndicate for $400,000.
              Frank Murphy, who recently died, leaving more than
              $2,000,000, was a brother of Michael Murphy, and left to
              him a large portion of his estate, making the latter a
              very wealthy man.

 April 9.   Daniel O’C. O’Donoghue of Portland, Me., was found dead in
              bed this morning, having passed away during the night, of
              paralysis of the heart. He was a native of County Kerry,
              Ireland; was commissioned civil assistant on the ordinance
              survey of Ireland at an early age. He arrived in New York
              before the Civil War; volunteered for that conflict and
              served two years with the Army of the Potomac on engineer
              duty. In 1865 he was appointed chief clerk in the United
              States engineer’s office at Portland, Me., charged with
              the construction of sea coast defenses and harbor and
              river improvements, holding that responsible position
              for twenty-seven years. Colonel O’Donoghue was division
              adjutant-general on the staff of Governor Chamberlain of
              Maine, and later inspector of the division. He was captain
              of the famous Montgomery Guards of Portland, Me., bringing
              the company up to a high standard of efficiency.

 April 13.  Thomas S. Lonergan of New York City, a member of the
              Society, lectures in Newark, N. J., on “Irishmen in the
              American Revolution.”

 April 19.  A patriotic pilgrimage, under the auspices of the Society,
              took place today to Lexington, Mass., the occasion being
              the anniversary of the battle of Lexington, 1775.

 May 18.    Secretary T. H. Murray of the Society, received a letter
              today from the New York State Library, saying that “We are
              making as complete a collection as possible of books and
              pamphlets on the Irish in America,” and asking for copies
              of works issued by the Society.

 May 27.    The remains of Capt. John Drum, Tenth United States
              Infantry, who was killed in action before Santiago de
              Cuba, July 1, 1898, were reinterred today in the National
              Cemetery at Arlington, Va. Interment had previously taken
              place at Brookline, Mass. Services were conducted at
              Arlington by his son, Rev. Walter M. Drum, S. J. Captain
              Drum was a member of our Society. He was a native of
              Ireland, a veteran of the Civil War, and saw much service
              in campaigns against the Indians; was at one period
              military instructor at St. Francis Xavier’s College, New
              York City.

 May 28.    A memorial to Molly Pitcher, the heroine of the battle
              of Monmouth in the Revolution, was dedicated today at
              Carlisle, Pa. The memorial consists of a cannon placed
              over her grave. The cannon weighs 1,400 pounds, and
              resembles in design the field piece which Molly helped
              to fire after her husband had fallen in battle. Molly
              Pitcher was “a young Irishwoman.”

 May 29.    A dinner was given at Delmonico’s, New York City, tonight,
              to Thomas Addis Emmet, M. D., LL. D., by his medical
              friends, in honor of his seventy-seventh birthday. Over
              one hundred physicians attended. Dr. E. C. Dudley,
              Chicago, Ill., presided. Dr. Emmet is a Life member of our
              Society.

 May 30.    Michael Brennan, a member of the Society, died today at his
              home, 2 West 75th Street, New York City.

 June 2.    Rev. John Harty, Pawtucket, R. I., a member of the Society,
              died today.

 June 8.    Hon. Henry F. Naphen, Boston, Mass., a member of the
              Society, was found dead in bed today. He had been in poor
              health for some time.

 July 4.    A bronze equestrian statue in honor of Gen. Thomas Francis
              Meagher was unveiled today in Helena, Mont.

 July 10.   A paragraph in the New York _Irish American_ of this date,
              states that Lieut. Martin L. Crimmins, U. S. A., has just
              been graduated from the Infantry and Cavalry School at
              Fort Leavenworth, successfully passing his examination
              for a captaincy. Captain Crimmins is a son of Hon. John
              D. Crimmins, president-general of the Society, and is
              himself a member of the organization. He was a member
              of the “Rough Riders” in the Spanish-American War, and
              later was commissioned a second lieutenant in the
              Sixty-ninth New York Volunteers, and still later a second
              lieutenant in the regular service. He served four years in
              the Philippines, and a year at Fort Lawton, Seattle, where
              he was selected from his regiment as a student officer to
              attend the school at Fort Leavenworth.

 July 31.   A letter is today received from James Connolly of Coronado,
              Cal., in which he presents nineteen candidates for
              membership in the Society.

            August. Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H.,
              treasurer-general of the Society, resigns his position as
              such owing to ill health. He was one of the founders of
              the Society, and has been treasurer-general of the latter
              ever since its organization. His resignation is received
              with much regret.

 Aug. 14.   Hon. James C. Monaghan of the Department of Commerce and
              Labor, Washington, D. C., a member of the Society,
              lectured at the Catholic Summer School, Cliff Haven, N.
              Y., today, on “The Game of Empire.”

 Aug. 28.   William G. Stanard, corresponding secretary and librarian
              of the Virginia Historical Society, writes concerning
              Colonel Fitzgerald, a friend and staff officer of General
              Washington.

 Sept. 2.   Michael P. O’Connor, Binghamton, N. Y., qualifies as a Life
              Member of the Society.

 Sept. 7.   The Elizabeth (N. J.) _Times_, of this date, has an
              editorial headed, “Cox again President.” It refers to
              Capt. William T. Cox, a member of our Society, who has
              again been reëlected chairman of the Fire Commissioners of
              that city. The editorial mentioned pays a high tribute to
              Captain Cox.

 Sept. 8.   Hon. C. B. Tillinghast, state librarian of Massachusetts,
              writes requesting a copy of _Early Irish in Old Albany, N.
              Y., With Special Mention of Jan Andriessen “De Iersman
              Van Dublingh.”_ The foregoing pamphlet was issued by the
              Society, 1903, and comprises a paper by Hon. Franklin M.
              Danaher of Albany. Mr. Tillinghast desires the pamphlet
              for the Massachusetts State Library.

 Sept. 10.  In the New York _Herald_ today, Mrs. Clara H. Manning has
              a contribution setting forth many interesting facts
              concerning the family and ancestry of Gen. Richard
              Montgomery. Mrs. Manning credits the information to “L.
              W., London, England.”

 Sept. 12.  Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, president of the United States,
              writes as follows to the management of the Irish
              Industrial Exhibition in New York City: “Gentlemen: I
              greatly regret that it is not in my power to be present at
              the Irish Industrial Exposition, to be held at Madison
              Square Garden. Not only should I be much interested in the
              display of industries of Ireland in the matter of
              textiles, laces and other branches of industrial art, but
              I should be particularly pleased with the educational
              feature, which I understand is to symbolize and interpret
              the ‘Irish revival.’ Unfortunately, it is simply out of my
              power to make another engagement of any kind whatsoever
              now, and all I can do is to send you my hearty good wishes
              for the success of so worthy a movement. It is peculiarly
              appropriate that in our country, where so large a portion
              of the blood of our mixed people is drawn from Irish
              stock, there should be this movement on broad lines, and
              carried out in such a wholesome and comprehensive manner,
              for the purpose of illustrating the industrial talents and
              artistic and literary genius of the Irish race. With all
              good wishes for the success of the exposition, believe me,
              sincerely yours, Theodore Roosevelt.”

 Sept. 14.  Hon. Patrick A. Collins, mayor of Boston, Mass., died today
              at Hot Springs, Va. He was a member of the Society.

 Sept. 19.  Death this evening of Hon. John C. Linehan, state insurance
              commissioner of New Hampshire, a founder of the Society.
              He passed away at his home in Penacook (Concord), N. H.

 Sept. 22.  Hon. Charles T. O’Ferrall, ex-governor of Virginia, died at
              Richmond, Va., today. He served in the Confederate army
              during the Civil War, attained the rank of colonel, and
              was wounded three times while in the service. He was a
              member of the 49th, 50th, 51st and 52d Congresses.

 Sept. 22.  Funeral at Penacook, N. H., today, of Hon. John C. Linehan.
              A requiem high Mass was celebrated at the Church of the
              Immaculate Conception. The eulogy was delivered by Bishop
              Delany of Manchester.

 Sept. 26.  Death today of Edward F. Galligan, M. D., Taunton, Mass., a
              member of the Society.

 Sept. 27.  In accordance with an army order issued at Washington, D.
              C., about this date, Capt. Michael M. McNamee, Fifteenth
              Cavalry, is detailed as a member of the examining board at
              Fort Ethan Allen, Vt.

 Sept. 27.  Mrs. Aaron Morley Wilcox writes from Washington, D. C., for
              information regarding the Society.

 Sept. 29.  Col. James Moran, Providence, R. I., writes making practical
              suggestions for a celebration next year of the anniversary
              of the battle of Rhode Island.

 Oct. 1.    A monument is dedicated today, in Holy Cross Cemetery,
              Malden, Mass., to the late Rev. Thomas H. Shahan of that
              city, who was a member of the Society. The monument was
              erected by the parishioners of the deceased clergyman.

 Oct. 7.    Among the nominations made today at the Massachusetts
              Democratic State Convention in Boston were the following:
              For state treasurer, Daniel J. Doherty, Westfield; for
              state auditor, Patrick J. Ashe, North Adams; for
              attorney-general, John P. Leahy, Boston.

 Oct. 7.    Notices were issued today for a meeting of the executive
              council of the Society to be held on the 19th inst.,
              at the Hotel Manhattan, New York City. The latter date
              is the anniversary of the surrender of Cornwallis at
              Yorktown. The council is to be entertained at dinner
              by Mr. Crimmins, president-general of the Society.

 Nov. 3.    Anniversary of the birth of Gen. William Irvine, a soldier
              of the Revolution. He was a native of Fermanagh, Ireland.

 Nov. 23.   Anniversary of the birth of Edward Rutledge, a signer of the
              Declaration of Independence. He was of Irish parentage.

 Nov. 29.   Anniversary of the birth of Charles Thomson, the “perpetual
              secretary” of Congress; a native of Ireland.

 Dec. 2.    Died on this date, in 1783, Thomas Burke. He was a native of
              Ireland, and was chosen governor of North Carolina in
              1781.




                               NECROLOGY.


The following members of the Society died during the year 1905, much and
deservedly regretted:

  BRENNAN, MICHAEL, New York City; owner of the Hotel San Remo, Central
    Park West, New York, and other property. He was born in Sligo,
    Ireland, 1832; died at his home, 2 West 75th Street, New York, May
    30. He was a member of the New York Friendly Sons of St. Patrick and
    of the Catholic Club. He became a member of the American-Irish
    Historical Society soon after the organization of the latter, and
    the first meeting and dinner held by the Society in New York took
    place at his hotel, the San Remo, just mentioned.

  COLLINS, HON. PATRICK A., mayor of Boston, Mass. He was born in
    Fermoy, County Cork, Ireland, March 12, 1844, died at Hot Springs,
    Va., Sept. 14, 1905. His mother brought him to this country when he
    was but four years of age. They settled in Chelsea, Mass. In the
    course of time, Patrick entered the law school of Harvard University
    and was graduated therefrom in 1871. He had gone into political
    affairs while he was a student and had been elected a member of the
    Massachusetts House of Representatives in 1868. He served two terms
    there and one in the State Senate. When he was admitted to the bar,
    in 1871, Mr. Collins made public announcement of his determination
    not to hold public office again in ten years. He kept to the
    resolution, but he stayed in politics. He became chairman of the
    Boston Democratic Committee in 1873 and held the responsibilities of
    the place for two years. He served as judge advocate-general on the
    staff of Governor Gaston of Massachusetts. While in the Legislature,
    Collins was identified with the passage of such liberal and
    reformatory legislation as freedom of worship for Catholics in
    penal, correctional and charitable institutions, the abolition of a
    distinct oath for Catholics, the ten-hour law, and legislation
    looking towards equal rights for foreign-born citizens. He was
    married in 1873 to Mary E. Cary. They had three children, Paul,
    Agnes and Marie. After serving two terms as congressman from the
    fourth Massachusetts district, he declined a third term, but was
    forced in his party’s interest to reconsider his decision. During
    his three terms in Congress he served on the Committee on the
    Judiciary, and sometimes in addition on the Committees on Pacific
    Railroads, French Spoliation Claims and other important bodies. He
    was delegateat-large to the National Democratic Conventions of 1876,
    1880, 1884 and 1892. He was permanent chairman of the 1888
    convention and made an address which attracted admiring attention
    from the whole country, as did his speech seconding the nomination
    of Grover Cleveland four years later. It was generally understood
    that Mr. Cleveland offered Mr. Collins a cabinet office, but Mr.
    Collins declined to take such office. Mr. Cleveland gave him instead
    one of the highest-paid government posts, that of consul-general at
    London, where the salary is $5,000 a year, and the fees in Mr.
    Collins’ time amounted to about $25,000 a year or more. Mr. Collins
    resigned from the chairmanship of the Democratic State Committee and
    went to London. When he was consul-general Mr. Cleveland again asked
    him to come into the cabinet as secretary of war. Mr. Collins
    refused. He was quoted as saying that he refused because he “didn’t
    care for second-hand clothes.” He never denied the remark. At the
    opening ceremonies of the Hotel Cecil, Mr. Collins’ remarks
    regarding the good will of Mr. Cleveland toward the British people
    were jeered by some of his hearers. He turned on them and said:
    “There is no antagonism between the United States and any
    well-meaning state on earth. If the rest of the world understood the
    United States as well as the United States understands the rest of
    the world there would never be any danger to peace between my
    country and other nations.” There were no more jeers. In 1897 Mr.
    Collins returned to the practice of law in Boston. He was nominated
    for mayor in 1899, but was beaten by differences in his own party.
    He was elected the next term, was re-elected, and held the office at
    the time of his death.

  GALLIGAN, EDWARD F. (M. D.), Taunton, Mass. He was a native of that
    city and was the son of Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Galligan. He studied
    medicine and was graduated from the medical department of Harvard
    University. In 1884, he was appointed city physician of Taunton and
    filled the position for several years. He was a trustee of the
    Morton Hospital, a member of the Taunton Physicians’ Club, of the
    North Bristol Medical Society and of the American Medical
    Association. He died Sept. 26, 1905.

  HARTY, REV. JOHN, a Roman Catholic clergyman; rector of the Church of
    the Sacred Heart, Pawtucket, R. I. He was a native of Ireland, and
    was ordained to the priesthood in Dublin, 1874. He died, June 2. He
    was at one period connected with St. Patrick’s Church, Providence,
    R. I., and was later rector of the church in East Providence.

  HAYES, JOHN, Manchester, N. H. He was a native of Ireland, and was of
    a splendid type as a man and a citizen. He died at Manchester in
    March. One of his sons, the late Hon. John J. Hayes, of Boston,
    Mass., was also a member of the Society.

  HICKS, MICHAEL, New York City; inventor of the “Hurricane lamp,” which
    was used on railway trains, and especially in the Pullman palace
    cars, until it was supplanted by the Pintsch light. He was born in
    County Meath, Ireland, 1832; died at his residence, 147 West 121st
    Street, New York, March 6.

  LINEHAN, HON. JOHN C., Penacook (Concord), N. H. He was state
    insurance commissioner of New Hampshire; a founder of the
    American-Irish Historical Society and treasurer-general of the same
    from its organization in January, 1897, to August, 1905, when he
    resigned owing to ill health. Commissioner Linehan was born in
    Macroom, County Cork, Ireland, Feb. 9, 1840, and came to this
    country in 1849. He was a son of John and Margaret (Foley) Linehan.
    He enlisted in August, 1861, in the band of the Third New Hampshire
    Volunteers and in after years was prominently identified with the
    Grand Army of the Republic, holding various offices therein. He
    served as a councilman and alderman of Concord, was chosen a member
    of the executive council of the state of New Hampshire to serve
    during the term of Gov. Charles H. Sawyer in 1887 and 1888. He was
    appointed trustee for the state industrial school by Gov. Samuel W.
    Hale in 1884, and except for a brief interval of a few months served
    continually since. He was secretary of the board for several years,
    and since 1897 was its president. He was also one of the committee
    to select the location for the Concord soldiers’ monument, as well
    as to select its design and inscription. He was appointed insurance
    commissioner of New Hampshire for three years by Gov. David H.
    Goodell, on Sept. 28, 1890. He was reappointed in 1893 by Gov. John
    B. Smith, in 1896 by Gov. Charles A. Busiel, and in 1899 by Gov.
    Frank W. Rollins. His record as insurance commissioner is well
    known. He was fearless and conscientious in the performance of his
    duties and received the commendations of his superiors, the
    governors and councils, as well as of the people of the state. His
    management of the insurance department was highly commended, and
    throughout the country he bore the reputation of being an honest,
    fearless, conscientious and capable public servant. A pamphlet
    published by the United States government in 1894, in which was
    printed the argument of Hon. John L. Thomas, assistant
    attorney-general, for the post office department, in the case of the
    United States v. the National Investment Company, contained 19 pages
    of extracts from Commissioner Linehan’s reports for the years
    1891–’92–’93. He was one of the charter members of William I. Brown
    Post, G. A. R., and its first commander, filling the position over
    two years. He was chosen to represent the Department of New
    Hampshire, G. A. R., at the National Encampment in Albany in 1878,
    and a member of the national Council of Administration in 1880–81.
    He was elected department commander of New Hampshire in 1883 and
    1884, and was appointed a member of the National Pension Committee,
    serving until 1887, when he was unanimously chosen junior
    vice-commander-in-chief, G. A. R. He was president of the New
    Hampshire Veteran Association in 1885 and 1886, and from its
    institution, with the exception of several years, its musical
    director. When his candidacy for the office of commander-in-chief at
    the annual G. A. R. encampment in Cincinnati in 1898 was before his
    comrades throughout the country, it received the heartiest
    indorsement, and when he withdrew there was much regret. He was
    elected one of the board of directors of the Gettysburg Battlefield
    Monument Association, and placed on the Executive Committee in 1884.
    He was a trustee of the Loan & Trust Savings Bank of Concord, a
    member of the New Hampshire Historical Society, Knights of Columbus,
    and of the Charitable Irish Society of Boston. He was a steady
    contributor to weeklies and periodicals. He contributed a chapter,
    _The Irish in New Hampshire_, to McClintock’s History of New
    Hampshire, also a chapter to the History of the First New Hampshire
    Regiment, on _The Irish of New Hampshire in the Civil War_, and a
    chapter to the History of the Seventeenth New Hampshire Regiment, on
    _Music and Songs of the War_. He has written many sketches on the
    early Irish settlers in the thirteen colonies, which have been
    published in papers and magazines. Several papers from his pen have
    appeared in the publications of the American-Irish Historical
    Society. He received a degree from Dartmouth College in 1887. He was
    also in demand as a speaker and lecturer, and had spoken more or
    less during every political campaign since 1884. He was married to
    Mary E. Pendergast by the Rev. John O’Donnell, in Nashua, N. H.,
    Jan. 2, 1864. Of the children born to them, four survive—Margaret,
    now Sister Mary Joseph, of the Order of Mercy; John Joseph, Timothy
    Patrick and Henry Francis. Commissioner Linehan died Sept. 19, 1905.

  NAPHEN, HON. HENRY F., Boston, Mass. He was a native of Ireland, and
    was born in 1852. He came to this country and was educated in Boston
    and Lowell, Mass. He graduated from Harvard University with the
    degree of LL. B., and also took a special course at that institution
    as resident LL. B., later continuing law studies at Boston
    University. He was elected a member of the Boston School Committee
    for three years, and at the end of that period declined a
    renomination. In 1885 and 1886 he represented the Fifth Suffolk
    District in the State Senate. In 1898 he was elected to Congress in
    the Tenth Massachusetts District. Throughout his first term he made
    memorable speeches on the Porto Rican question, the trusts, the
    Philippine question, improvement of Boston harbor, and many other
    important measures. Renominated by his party in 1900, Congressman
    Naphen was reëlected by a majority of more than 7,200 votes, a
    remarkable victory. He was a member of the Ancient and Honorable
    Artillery Company, Boston Athletic Association, City Point Catholic
    Association, Charitable Irish Society, Catholic Union, Knights of
    St. Rose, Massachusetts Catholic Order of Foresters, the Knights of
    Columbus, and other societies; was a director and clerk of the board
    of directors of St. Elizabeth’s Hospital, and a vice-president of
    the Working Boys’ Home. He was a bail commissioner for the County of
    Suffolk, and was also an honorary member of Dahlgren Post 2, G. A.
    R., and Benj. Stone Post 68, G. A. R. He died in Boston in June.

  TRAVERS, FRANCIS C., New York City. He was born in that city, and was
    the founder of the house of Travers Brothers Company, manufacturers
    of, and dealers in, twine and cordage; was president of the company;
    was also a director of the Columbia National Life Insurance Co., a
    trustee of the Franklin Savings Bank, vice-president of the
    Merchants’ Trust Co., and was a member of the New York Friendly Sons
    of St. Patrick, the Catholic Club, and other prominent
    organizations. He was an intimate personal friend of President
    Theodore Roosevelt, and was very highly esteemed by the latter. Mr.
    Travers died at his home in New York, March 18.

  WALSH, JAMES A., Lewiston, Me. He was resident agent for the Lewiston
    Bleachery and Dye Works, where he had been located for some twelve
    years. He died in Lewiston Feb. 7. aged 53 years.




                            MEMBERSHIP ROLL
                                 OF THE
                   AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

          [For officers of the Society see pages 5, 6 and 7.]


  =Adams, Hon. Samuel=, president and treasurer of the Adams Dry Goods
    Co., 339–355 Sixth Avenue, New York City; director, Garfield
    National Bank, New York; member of the New York Chamber of Commerce;
    an ex-senator of Colorado.

  =Adams, T. Albeus=, president of the Gansevoort Bank, Fourteenth
    Street and Ninth Avenue, New York City; also president of Adams &
    Co.; president of the Adams Bros. Co.; president of the Manhattan
    Refrigerating Co.; director, Mercantile National Bank.

  =Ahern, John=, 5 Highland Street, Concord, N. H.

  =Allen, Rt. Rev. Edward P.= (D. D.), Mobile, Ala., bishop of the Roman
    Catholic diocese of Mobile.

  =Aspell, John= (M. D.), 139 West 77th Street, New York City; member of
    the Academy of Medicine; of the County Medical Association, and of
    the Celtic Medical Society; recently president of the latter;
    visiting surgeon to St. Vincent’s Hospital.

  =Bannin, Michael E.=, of Converse, Stanton & Co., drygoods commission
    merchants, 83 and 85 Worth Street, New York City; member of the
    Merchants Association, New York; director, the Emigrant Industrial
    Savings Bank; director, the Catholic Summer School (Cliff Haven);
    member of the Merchants and Catholic clubs, New York, of the Montauk
    Club, Brooklyn, and of the Brooklyn Arts and Science Institute;
    director, the Columbian National Life Insurance Co.; director,
    American Investment Securities Co.

  =Bannon, Henry G.=, 107 East 55th Street, New York City; president of
    the Irish National Club; secretary, Celtic-American Publishing Co.

  =Barrett, Michael F.=, of Barrett Bros., wholesale and retail dealers
    in teas, coffees, etc., 308 Spring Street and 574 Hudson Street, New
    York City.

  =Barry, Hon. Patrick T.=, 87–97 South Jefferson Street, Chicago, Ill.
    (Life member of the Society); advertising manager, Chicago Newspaper
    Union; director, First National Bank of Englewood, Ill.; director,
    The _Chicago Citizen_ Company; has been a member of the State
    Legislature of Illinois; prominently identified with educational
    interests.

  =Barry, Rev. Michael=, Oswego, N. Y.

  =Baxter, Rev. James J.= (D. D.), 9 Whitmore Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Bodfish, Rev. Joshua P. L.=, Canton, Mass.; formerly chancellor of
    the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Boston; a director of the Bunker
    Hill Monument Association.

  =Bourlet, John W.=, of the Rumford Printing Co., Concord, N. H.

  =Boyle, Hon. Patrick J.=, now serving his eleventh term as mayor of
    Newport, R. I.

  =Brady, Rev. Cyrus Townsend= (LL. D.), 455 East 17th Street, Flatbush,
    Brooklyn, N. Y.; member of the Society of Colonial Wars, of the Sons
    of the Revolution, of the Military Order of Foreign Wars, and of
    other patriotic organizations; chaplain of the First Pennsylvania
    Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain; formerly Protestant Episcopal
    archdeacon of Pennsylvania; author of _For Love of Country_, _For
    the Freedom of the Sea_, _Stephen Decatur_, _Commodore Paul Jones_,
    _Border Fights and Fighters_, and other works.

  =Brady, Owen J.=, with The H. B. Claflin Co., 224 Church Street, New
    York City.

  =Brandon, Edward J.=, city clerk, Cambridge, Mass.

  =Brann, Rev. Henry A.= (D. D.), 141 East 43d Street, New York City
    (Life member of the Society).

  =Bree, Hon. James P.=, lawyer, 902 Chapel Street, New Haven, Conn.;
    state auditor of Connecticut; recently a senator.

  =Brennan, Hon. James F.=, lawyer, Peterborough, N. H.; a trustee of
    the New Hampshire State Library.

  =Brennan, James F.=, contractor, 2 Garden Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Brennan, P. J.=, 788 West End Avenue, New York City.

  =Brierly, Frank=, 268 West 131st Street, New York City.

  =Broderick, William J.=, 52 Morton Street, New York City.

  =Brosnahan, Rev. Timothy=, rector of St. Mary’s Church, Waltham, Mass.

  =Buckley, Andrew=, Parsons, Labette County, Kansas.

  =Burke, Robert E.=, recently city solicitor, Newburyport. Mass.

  =Burr, William P.=, lawyer, 35 Nassau Street, New York City.

  =Butler, T. Vincent=, with R. G. Dun & Co., New York City.

  =Buttimer, Thomas H.=, lawyer, Hingham and Boston, Mass.

  =Byrne, C. E.=, of the C. E. Byrne Piano Co., East 41st Street, New
    York City.

  =Byrne, Maj. John=, 45 Wall Street, New York City; director, Detroit
    City Gas Co.; president, Shawmut Coal and Coke Co.; chairman Board
    of Directors, Pittsburg, Shawmut & Northern R. R. Co.; president,
    Kersey Mining Co.; president, Kersey R. R. Co.; chairman Board of
    Directors, Shawmut Mining Co.; trustee, Emigrant Industrial Savings
    Bank of New York City.

  =Byrne, Joseph M.=, insurance, 800 Broad Street, Newark, N. J.

  =Byrne, Rt. Rev. William= (D. D., V. G.), rector of St. Cecilia’s
    Church, St. Cecilia Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Cahill, John H.=, 15 Dey Street, New York City.

  =Cahill, M. J.=, dry goods merchant, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Cahill, Thomas M.= (M. D.), 40 Pearl Street, New Haven, Conn.; son of
    the late Col. Thomas W. Cahill who commanded the Ninth Connecticut
    Volunteer Infantry (an Irish regiment), in the Civil War.

  =Calnin, James=, 101–107 Lakeview Avenue, Lowell, Mass.

  =Cannon, Thomas H.=, of the law firm Cannon & Poage, Stock Exchange
    Building, Chicago, Ill.

  =Carbray, Hon. Felix=, Benburb Place, Quebec, Canada; member of the
    Royal Irish Academy; Fellow of the Royal Society of Antiquaries,
    Ireland; member of the Quebec Harbor Commission and of the Quebec
    Board of Trade; consul for Portugal at Quebec, and dean of the
    Consular Corps; trustee of St. Patrick’s Church, and of St.
    Bridget’s Asylum; has represented his district in the parliament of
    the Province of Quebec. He was one of the pioneers in the lumber
    trade between the St. Lawrence and South America; has engaged in the
    general commission and shipping business, and has been a member of
    the successive firms: Carbray & Routh; Carbray, Routh & Co.; and
    Carbray, Son & Co.

  =Carmody, T. F.=, lawyer, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Carney, Michael=, of M. Carney & Co., Lawrence, Mass.

  =Carroll, Edward=, Leavenworth National Bank, Leavenworth, Kansas.

  =Carroll, Edward R.=, 333 East 51st Street, New York City; clerk’s
    office, Court of General Sessions of the Peace, City and County of
    New York.

  =Carroll, John L.=, 18 State Street, Newark, N. J.

  =Carter, Patrick=, real estate, mortgages and insurance, 32
    Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Carter, Hon. Thomas H.=, Helena, Mont.; a United States senator.

  =Casey, Michael=, of Casey & Bacon, wholesale grocers, Pittsfield,
    Mass.

  =Cassidy, John J.=, 907 Adams Street, Wilmington, Del.

  =Cassidy, Patrick= (M. D.), Norwich, Conn.; was surgeon-general on the
    staff of Gov. Luzon B. Morris of Connecticut, ranking as
    brigadier-general.

  =Chittick, Rev. J. J.=, Hyde Park, Mass.

  =Clancy, Laurence=, dry goods merchant, West Bridge Street, Oswego, N.
    Y.; trustee, Oswego County Savings Bank; director, electric street
    railway; member, Normal school board; has repeatedly declined a
    nomination for mayor of Oswego.

  =Clare, William F.=, lawyer, 149 Broadway, New York City.

  =Clark, Rev. James F.=, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Clarke, James=, of James Clarke & Co., booksellers and publishers, 3,
    5 and 7 West 22d Street, New York City.

  =Clarke, Joseph I. C.=, Sunday editor, New York _Herald_, Herald
    Square, New York City.

  =Clary, Charles H.=, Hallowell, Me.; a descendant of John Clary, “of
    Newcastle, province of New Hampshire,” who married Jane Mahoney, of
    Georgetown, Me., 1750. Four children were born to them before 1760.
    Mr. Clary of Hallowell, Me., here mentioned, was one of the founders
    of the Clary Reunion Family which meets annually.

  =Cockran, Hon. W. Bourke=, 31 Nassau Street, New York City; a member
    of Congress. (Life member of the Society.)

  =Coffey, John J.=, Neponset (Boston), Mass.; served during the Civil
    War in the Twenty-eighth Massachusetts Infantry (the Faugh-a-Ballagh
    regiment), which formed part of Meagher’s Irish Brigade, First
    Division, Second Corps; participated in the valorous charges of the
    brigade against the Confederates at Marye’s Heights; was wounded at
    Gettysburg and still carries the bullet in his body. His brother
    Michael J., was color sergeant of the Irish flag of the regiment and
    carried it until he fell mortally wounded at the second battle of
    Bull Run.

  =Coffey, Rev. Michael J.=, East Cambridge, Mass.

  =Coghlan, Rev. Gerald P.=, 2141 North Broad Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Cohalan, Daniel F.=, lawyer, 271 Broadway, New York City.

  =Coleman, James S.=, 38 East 69th Street, New York City; of Coleman,
    Breuchaud & Coleman.

  =Coleman, John=, capitalist, Louisville, Ky.

  =Collins, James M.=, 6 Sexton Avenue, Concord, N. H.

  =Collins, Hon. John S.=, Gilsum, N. H.; manufacturer of woolens; an
    ex-state senator of New Hampshire.

  =Collins, William D.= (M. D.), Haverhill, Mass.

  =Conaty, Bernard=, 30 Cypress Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Conaty, Rev. B. S.=, 340 Cambridge Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Conaty, Rt. Rev. Thomas J.= (D. D.), Los Angeles, Cal., bishop of the
    Roman Catholic diocese of Monterey and Los Angeles.

  =Condon, Edward O’Meagher=, U. S. Court House and Postoffice,
    Nashville, Tenn.; connected with the office of the U. S. Supervising
    Architect, Washington, D. C., as an inspector of public buildings;
    served in the Union army during the Civil War.

  =Coney, Patrick H.=, lawyer, 316 Kansas Avenue, Topeka, Kan. He
    entered the Union army in 1863, at the age of 15 years, enlisting in
    the One Hundred and Eleventh New York Infantry. He was detailed as
    dispatch bearer on General McDougall’s staff, promoted as an orderly
    dispatch bearer on Gen. Nelson A. Miles’ staff, served in this
    capacity on to Appomattox and Lee’s surrender, and was transferred
    June 5, 1865, to Company H, Fourth New York Heavy Artillery. He
    served until October 5, 1865, when he was honorably discharged at
    Hart’s Island, N. Y. He was wounded at the battle of Peach Orchard
    in front of Petersburg, Va., on June 16, 1864, and rejoined his
    command from the hospital after sixty days’ convalescence. In
    addition to his law practice, he is general manager of the American
    Investment and Development Co., which is engaged in the promotion
    and development of 11,000 acres of mineral, gas and oil lands in
    Benton County, Mo. Gen. Nelson A. Miles is president of the company.

  =Conlon, William L.=, Portsmouth, N. H.

  =Connery, William P.=, Wheeler and Pleasant Streets, Lynn, Mass.;
    recently candidate for mayor of Lynn.

  =Connolly, Capt. James=, Coronado, Cal. He was born in County Cavan,
    Ireland, 1842; came to this country when he was but ten years of
    age, and spent much of his youth at East Dennis, Cape Cod, Mass. His
    early love for the sea was gratified later in life when he became
    captain of some of the finest deep-water ships sailing from
    Baltimore, Boston and elsewhere. His first command was the bark _May
    Queen_, a regular Baltimore and Rio packet, 1872. He then had
    command of the ship _Pilgrim_ of Boston, and made several voyages to
    the East Indies. In 1884 he was given command of the _Charger_, a
    larger and finer ship than the _Pilgrim_, and sailed to ports in
    Japan. He next had command of the _South American_, “the Commodore’s
    ship,” of the Hastings fleet (Boston), and took her to Australia and
    other parts. He made several record voyages during his career, and
    some of these records still stand, having never been equalled. On
    one occasion he was wrecked off the coast of Africa; he and his wife
    upon being rescued were hospitably entertained by the Boers of the
    adjacent country. Returning to East Dennis, Mass., his wife’s health
    became poor and so he removed with her to Coronado, Cal., hoping
    that the change of climate would benefit her, but she died in 1901.
    She had accompanied her husband on several of his voyages, and had
    with him visited many parts of the world. Captain Connolly has
    written much and entertainingly. He has at present in manuscript
    form a novel of ocean life entitled _The Magic of the Sea_.

  =Connolly, Rev. Arthur T.=, Center and Creighton Streets, Roxbury
    (Boston), Mass.

  =Connor, Michael=, 509 Beech Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Conway, James L.=, 113 Worth Street, New York City.

  =Conway, Matt=, of Conway & Kessler, real estate, loans, exchange and
    insurance, 405 Laughlin Building, Los Angeles, Cal.

  =Cooke, Rev. Michael J.=, Fall River, Mass (Life member of the
    Society.)

  =Cooney, Brig.-Gen. Michael=, U. S. A. (retired), 500 T Street, N. W.,
    Washington, D. C.

  =Corcoran, John H.=, dry goods merchant, 587 Massachusetts Avenue,
    Cambridge, Mass.

  =Coughlin, John=, 177 Water Street, Augusta, Me.

  =Cox, Michael F.= (M. D., M. R. I. A.), 26 Merrion Square, Dublin,
    Ireland.

  =Cox, Michael H.=, 54 Commerce Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Cox, William T.=, 12 South Second Street, Elizabeth, N. J., owner of
    Cox’s Towing Line; for some years chairman of the fire commissioners
    of Elizabeth; ex-chief of the Elizabeth Volunteer Fire Department.

  =Coyle, Rev. James=, Taunton, Mass.

  =Coyle, Rev. John D.=, 79 Davenport Avenue, New Haven, Conn.

  =Crane, John=, 8 & 10 Bridge Street, New York City; of the firm Crane
    & MacMahon, manufacturers of wheels, carriage woodstock, and
    hardwood lumber. Among offices held by him may be mentioned:
    director of the Ganesvoort Bank, New York; trustee of Emigrant
    Industrial Savings Bank; president of the Irish Emigrant Society;
    president of Ascension Conference, Society of St. Vincent de Paul;
    member of the Superior Council, Society of St. Vincent de Paul;
    chairman of the Finance Committee for Special Work, of the same
    society; vice-president of the Virginia and North Carolina Wheel
    Co., Richmond, Va.; vice-president of the St. Marys Spoke and Wheel
    Co., of St. Marys, Ohio; trustee of the Soldiers and Sailors Home,
    Bath, N. Y.; president of the Society of the Army of the Tennessee.
    He is also a member of the New York Commandery, Military Order of
    the Loyal Legion, of the New York Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, and
    of other organizations. He was a commissioned officer during the
    Civil War in the Sixth and Seventeenth Wisconsin Regiments of
    Infantry, saw four years of very active service, and was regimental
    and brigade adjutant for a considerable period.

  =Creagh, Rev. John T.= (J. U. L., S. T. L., J. C D.), Catholic
    University, Washington, D. C.; associate professor of canon law.

  =Creamer, Walter H.=, 4 Prescott Place, Lynn, Mass. His
    great-grandfather, Edward Creamer, was born in Kinsale, Ireland,
    1756, was graduated from Trinity College, Dublin, and in 1784
    settled in Salem, Mass. He was a physician there. This Edward had a
    son George who married Hannah Gardner whose mother was Mary
    Sullivan, a sister of Gen. John Sullivan of the Revolution and of
    Gov. James Sullivan of Massachusetts. Walter H. Creamer, here
    mentioned, is a grandson of the said George and Hannah (Gardner)
    Creamer.

  =Crimmins, Hon. John D.=, 40 East 68th Street, New York City; a Life
    member of the Society; president-general of the organization in
    1901, 1902 and 1905; a member of the New York Municipal Art
    Commission. Mr. Crimmins served as a park commissioner of New York
    City from 1883 to 1888, during which time he was treasurer and
    president of the board. He was a member of the Board of Visitors to
    West Point in 1894, and presidential elector (Democratic), in 1892
    and 1904. He was appointed by Governor Roosevelt and served as a
    member of the Greater New York Charter Revision Commission. In 1894,
    he was a member of the New York State Constitutional Convention. Mr.
    Crimmins is a member of the New York Chamber of Commerce, and is
    officially connected with many railway, realty and banking
    corporations. He is president of the Essex and Hudson Land
    Improvement Co.; president of the Port Richmond and Bergen Point
    Ferry Co.; president of the Bergen Point and Staten Island Ferry
    Co.; honorary vice-president of the Trust Company of America, New
    York; vice-president of the Title Insurance Co. of New York;
    vice-president of the New York Mortgage and Security Co.; director
    of the Fifth Avenue Bank of New York, and also a director in the
    following companies: New York City Railway Co., Metropolitan
    Securities Co., the Century Realty Co., and the Chelsea Realty Co.
    He is prominently identified with the charities of the Roman
    Catholic Church as well as with non-sectarian charities. He is
    chairman of the executive committee of the trustees of St. Patrick’s
    Cathedral; member of the board of managers of the Roman Catholic
    Orphan Asylum; member of the board of managers of St. Vincent’s
    Hospital; member of the board of trustees of St. John’s Guild, and
    also of the Provident Loan Society of New York. Mr. Crimmins is also
    a director of the City and Suburban Homes Co. of New York, which has
    for its object to provide model homes at reasonable cost for working
    people. He is a member of the following clubs: Catholic,
    Metropolitan, Lawyers, Democratic, Manhattan, and of the Wee Burn
    Golf Club, of which he was formerly president. He is likewise a
    member of the board of managers of the Sevilla Home for Children, a
    non-sectarian charity, and is also one of the managers of the
    Society for the Reformation of Juvenile Delinquents.

  =Crimmins, Capt. Martin L.=, U. S. A.; care of War Department,
    Washington, D. C.; a son of Hon. John D. Crimmins of New York City.

  =Cronin, Capt. William=, Rutland, Vt.

  =Croston, J. F.= (M. D.), Emerson Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Cummings, Matthew J.=, Overseer of the poor, 616 Eddy Street,
    Providence, R. I.

  =Cummins, Rev. John F.=, Roslindale (Boston), Mass.

  =Cunningham, James=, 277 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =Curran, James=, of the James Curran Manufacturing Co., 512–514 West
    36th Street, New York City; a veteran of the Civil War.

  =Curry, Capt. P. S.=, contractor and builder, Lynn, Mass.; a veteran
    of the Civil War.

  =Curry, Edmond J.=, 69–71 East 89th Street, New York City.

  =Curtin, Jeremiah=, Bristol, Vt.; author of _Hero Tales of Ireland_,
    _Myths and Folk-Lore of Ireland_, _Myths and Folk-Tales of the
    Russians_, _Western Slavs and Magyars_; translator of works of
    Henryk Sienkiewicz; Mr. Curtin was acting U. S. Consul-General in
    Russia, 1865–’66; actively connected with the Bureau of Ethnology,
    Smithsonian Institution, 1883–’91. He is one of the greatest of
    living philologists and linguists.

  =Daly, Hon. Joseph F.= (LL. D.), Wall Street, New York City; Chief
    Justice of the Court of Common Pleas, New York, 1890–’96; Justice of
    the New York Supreme Court, 1896–’98; member of the Board of
    Managers, Roman Catholic Orphan Asylum; member of the Advisory
    Board, St. Vincent’s Hospital; served in 1900 on the commission to
    revise the laws of Porto Rico.

  =Danaher, Hon. Franklin M.=, Albany, N. Y.; member of the State Board
    of Law Examiners; many years Judge of the City Court of Albany.

  =Danvers, Robert E.=, 349–351 West 58th Street (the St. Albans), New
    York City; dealer in iron and steel.

  =Dasey, Charles V.=, Board of Trade Building, Broad Street, Boston,
    Mass.; steamship and insurance agent; general Eastern agent, Anchor
    Line S. S. Co., and of the Italian Royal Mail S. S. Co.; general
    agent, Insular Navigation Co.; general agency for ocean travel.

  =Davis, Dr. F. L.=, Biddeford, Me.

  =Davis, Hon. Robert T.= (M. D.), Fall River, Mass. He was born in
    County Down, Ireland. 1823; was a member of the Massachusetts State
    Constitutional Convention, 1853; a state senator, 1858–’61, and
    member of the National Republican Convention that nominated Abraham
    Lincoln for president in 1860. In 1873, Dr. Davis was elected mayor
    of Fall River. In 1882, he was elected to Congress, and was
    reëlected in 1884 and 1886. He has been prominently identified with
    the manufacturing interests of Fall River, has been president of the
    Wampanoag and Stafford mills, and has also been officially connected
    with the Merchants’, Robeson and other mills.

  =Day, Joseph P.=, real estate, 932 Eighth Avenue, New York City.

  =Deeves, Richard=, of Richard Deeves & Son, builders, 305–309
    Broadway, New York City.

  =Delahanty, Dr. W. J.=, Trumbull Square, Worcester, Mass.

  =Delehanty, Hon. F. B.=, Judges’ Chambers, Court House, City Hall
    Park, New York; a Judge of the City Court.

  =Dempsey, George C.=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Dempsey, William P.=, treasurer and manager, the Dempsey Bleachery
    and Dye Works, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Devlin, James H.=, 35 Parsons Street, Brighton (Boston), Mass.

  =Devlin, James H., Jr.=, lawyer, Barristers Hall, Pemberton Square,
    Boston, Mass.

  =Dewire, Thomas A.=, 405 Washington Street, Somerville, Mass.

  =Dixon, Richard=, insurance, 52–54 William Street, New York City.

  =Donahue, Dan A.=, 178 Essex Street, Salem, Mass.

  =Donahue, R. J.=, cashier of the National Bank of Ogdensburg, N. Y.

  =Donoghue, D. F.= (M. D.), 240 Maple Street, Holyoke, Mass.

  =Donovan, Daniel=, 21 High Rock Street, Lynn, Mass.; an authority on
    heraldry, armorial bearings, etc., particularly as the same relate
    to Ireland.

  =Donovan, Henry F.=, editor and proprietor _The Chicago
    Eagle_, Teutonic Building, Chicago, Ill.; late colonel and
    inspector-general, Illinois National Guard.

  =Donovan, John W.=, of Larkin, Donovan & Co., real estate, mortgages,
    and insurance, 1228 Amsterdam Avenue, New York City.

  =Donovan, Col. William H.=, Lawrence, Mass.; commander of the Ninth
    Regiment M. V. M.; served with the regiment in Cuba during the
    recent war with Spain.

  =Donnelly, Thomas F.=, lawyer, 257 Broadway, New York City.

  =Doogue, William=, superintendent of Public Grounds, Boston, Mass.

  =Dooley, Michael F.=, treasurer of the Union Trust Co., Providence, R.
    I.

  =Doran, Patrick L.=, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Dowd, James J.=, insurance. High Street, Holyoke, Mass.

  =Dowling, Hon. M. J.=, Olivia, Minn.

  =Dowling, Rev. Austin=, rector of the Cathedral, Providence, R. I.

  =Downing, Bernard=, secretary to the president of the Borough of
    Manhattan, New York City.

  =Downing, D. P.=, with National Biscuit Company, Cambridge, Mass.

  =Doyle, Alfred L.=, of John F. Doyle & Sons, real estate agents,
    brokers and appraisers, 45 William Street, New York City.

  =Doyle, James=, 50 Front Street, New York City; present oldest member
    of the flour trade in New York; member of the New York Produce
    Exchange from the beginning; member of the board of managers of the
    Exchange, 1897–1901. He and his son, Nathaniel, are associated in
    trade as James Doyle & Company.

  =Doyle, John F.=, of John F. Doyle & Sons, 45 William Street, New York
    City. (Life member of the Society.)

  =Doyle, John F., Jr.=, of John F. Doyle & Sons, 45 William Street, New
    York City.

  =Doyle, Nathaniel=, of James Doyle & Co., flour, etc., 50 Front
    Street, New York City; member of the board of managers, New York
    Produce Exchange; secretary of the exchange; member of the New York
    Club, 5th Avenue and 35th Street.

  =Drummond, M. J.=, of M. J. Drummond & Co., 182 Broadway, New York
    City.

  =Duffy, P. P.=, Parsons, Labette County, Kansas.

  =Duggan, John T.= (M. D.), Worcester, Mass.

  =Dunn, Hon. Robert C.=, publisher of _The Union_, Princeton, Minn.;
    candidate in 1904 for governor of Minnesota.

  =Dunne, F. L.=, 328 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Dwyer, J. R.=, 732 Alpine St., Los Angeles, Cal.

  =Dyer, Dr. William H.=, Dover, N. H.

  =Editor of “The Rosary Magazine,”= Somerset, O. (Life member of the
    Society.)

  =Egan, James T.=, of the law firm, Gorman, Egan & Gorman, Banigan
    Building, Providence, R. I.

  =Egan, Maurice Francis= (LL. D., J. U. D.), Professor of English
    Language and Literature, Catholic University of America, Washington,
    D. C.

  =Egan, Rev. M. H.=, rector, Church of the Sacred Heart, Lebanon, N. H.

  =Egan, Hon. Patrick=, 271 Broadway, New York City; recently United
    States Minister to Chili.

  =Ellard, George W.=, 180 Lisbon Street, Lewiston, Me.

  =Emmet, Dr. J. Duncan=, 103 Madison Avenue, New York City.

  =Emmet, Robert=, The Priory, Warwick, England.

  =Emmet, Thomas Addis= (M. D., LL. D.), 89 Madison Avenue, New York
    City (Life member of the Society); grand nephew of the Irish
    patriot, Robert Emmet.

  =Eustace, Hon. Alexander C.=, of the law firm A. C. & J. P. Eustace,
    334 East Water Street, Elmira, N. Y.; during the past sixteen years
    identified, as attorney or counsel, with many of the most important
    litigations before the courts in southern and western New York; was
    for three years, prior to 1893, president of the New York State
    Civil Service Commission.

  =Fallon, Hon. Joseph D.= (LL. D.), 789 Broadway, South Boston, Mass.;
    justice of the South Boston Municipal Court; vice-president, Union
    Institution for Savings.

  =Fallon, Hon. Joseph P.=, 1900 Lexington Avenue, New York City;
    justice of the Ninth District Municipal Court.

  =Farley, Charles J.=, Department of Docks, New York City.

  =Farley, Most Rev. John M.=, (D. D.), 452 Madison Ave., New York City.

  =Farrell, James P.=, superintendent of the Brooklyn Disciplinary
    Training School, 18th Avenue, between 56th and 58th Streets,
    Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Farrell, John F.=, Brander-Walsh Co., 89 Worth Street, New York City.

  =Farrell, John T.= (M. D.), 16 Messer Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Farrelly, Stephen=, American News Co., New York City. (Life member of
    the Society.)

  =Fay, Martin=, 55 Bainbridge Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Feeley, William J.=, treasurer of the W. J. Feeley Co., silversmiths
    and manufacturing jewelers, 185 Eddy Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Ferguson, Hugh=, of Hugh Ferguson & Co., George Street, Charleston,
    S. C.

  =Finen, Rev. J. E.=, Tilton, N. H.

  =Finerty, Hon. John F.=, 69 Dearborn Street, Chicago, Ill.; editor of
    the _Chicago Citizen_; ex-member of Congress.

  =Finn, Rev. Thomas J.=, Box 242, Port Chester, N. Y.

  =Fitzgerald, Rev. D. W.=, 9 Pleasant Street, Penacook, N. H.

  =Fitzgerald, Hon. James=, New York City; a justice of the New York
    Supreme Court.

  =Fitzpatrick, Edward=, on the staff of the Louisville (Ky.) _Times_; a
    resident of New Albany, Ind.; member of the committee to select
    books for the New Albany Public Library; was, from 1878 to 1885,
    Indiana correspondent of the Louisville _Courier-Journal_, reporting
    the Legislature two terms, 1883–’85, for that paper, and at the same
    time was assistant to the chief clerk in the House of
    Representatives; was appointed a clerk in the U. S. Q. M. Depot at
    Jeffersonville, Ind., in 1885, but resigned to re-enter the employ
    of the _Courier-Journal_, as political reporter in Louisville; was
    four years on the Louisville _Post_; returned to the
    _Courier-Journal_; was transferred to the _Times_ (the afternoon
    edition of the _Courier-Journal_), and has been on that paper for
    many years past. He is a keen and forceful writer, and is one of the
    ablest men in American journalism.

  =Fitzpatrick, John B.=, real estate, etc., 23 Court Street, Boston,
    Mass.; has been deputy sheriff of Suffolk County, Mass.

  =Fitzpatrick, Thomas B.=, senior member of the firm Brown, Durrell &
    Co., importers and manufacturers, 104 Kingston Street, Boston,
    Mass.; Rand McNally Building, Chicago, Ill., and 11–19 West 19th
    Street, New York City; president of the Union Institution for
    Savings, Boston, and a director in the United States Trust Co. of
    that city.

  =Fitzpatrick, Rev. William H.=, 2221 Dorchester Avenue, Boston, Mass.

  =Flannagan, Andrew J.= (D. D. S ), Main Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Flannery, Capt. John=, Savannah. Ga.; of John Flannery & Co., cotton
    factors and commission merchants; was a non-commissioned officer of
    the Irish Jasper Greens in garrison at Fort Pulaski, 1861; was later
    lieutenant and captain, C. S. A., serving under Gen. Joe Johnston
    and General Hood; became a partner, in 1865, in the cotton firm, L.
    J. Guilmartin & Co., having a line of steamers from Charleston, S.
    C., to Palatka, Fla.; bought out the business in 1877; founded the
    house of John Flannery & Co.; became director and president of the
    Southern Bank of the State of Georgia; is ex-president of the
    Southern Cotton Exchange; captain, 1872–’98, of the Jasper Greens.

  =Fogarty, James A.=, 264 Blatchley Avenue, New Haven, Conn., recently
    a police commissioner of New Haven.

  =Fogarty, Jeremiah W.=, Registry of Deeds, Boston, Mass.

  =Ford, Hon. Peter J.=, Ford Building, Wilmington, Del.

  =Fox, John J.=, 1908–1910 Bathgate Avenue, New York City.

  =Foy, Julius L.=, lawyer, Rialto Building, St. Louis, Mo.

  =Franklin, A. H.=, 56 West 33d Street, New York City.

  =Gaffney, Hon. T. St. John=, lawyer; member of the French Legion of
    Honor; 41 Riverside Drive, New York City; U. S. Consul General,
    Dresden.

  =Gallagher, Patrick=, contractor and builder, 11 East 59th Street, New
    York City. (Life member of the Society.)

  =Gargan, Hon. Thomas J.=, of the law firm, Gargan, Keating & Brackett,
    Pemberton Building, Boston, Mass.; Life member of the Society, and
    president-general of the same in 1899 and 1900; member of the Boston
    Transit Commission; director of the United States Trust Co.;
    director, the Columbian National Life Insurance Co.

  =Garrigan, Rt. Rev. Philip J.= (D. D.), bishop of the Roman Catholic
    diocese of Sioux City, Iowa.

  =Garrity, P. H.=, 221 Bank Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Garvan, Francis P.=, assistant district attorney, 23 Fifth Avenue,
    New York City.

  =Garvan, Hon. Patrick=, 236 Farmington Avenue, Hartford, Conn.; paper
    and paper stock. (Life member of the Society.)

  =Garvey, Patrick J.=, lawyer, Holyoke, Mass.

  =Gavin, Michael=, of M. Gavin & Co., wholesale grocers and cotton
    factors, 232–234 Front Street, Memphis, Tenn.

  =Gavin, Dr. P. F.=, 331 Broadway, South Boston, Mass.

  =Geary, William M.=, headquarters, Knights of Columbus, New Haven,
    Conn.

  =Geoghegan, Charles A.=, 537–539, West Broadway, New York City.

  =Geoghegan, Joseph=, Salt Lake City, Utah (Life member of the
    Society); vice-president of the board of education, Salt Lake City;
    director of the Utah National Bank; director of the Utah Loan and
    Building Association; director of the Butler Liberal Manufacturing
    Co., all three concerns of Salt Lake City; also, director in many
    other corporations. He is general agent in Utah for Swift & Co. of
    Chicago; Borden’s Condensed Milk Co. of New York; the American Can
    Co. of New York, and the Pennsylvania Salt Mfg. Co. of Philadelphia.
    He is broker for the following: the Western Sugar Refining Co. of
    San Francisco, Cal.; the Utah Sugar Co. of Lehi, Utah; the
    Amalgamated Sugar Co. of Ogden, Utah; the Idaho Sugar Co. of Idaho
    Falls, Idaho, and the Fremont County Sugar Co. of Sugar City, Idaho.

  =Geoghegan, Joseph G.=, 20 East 73d Street, New York City. (Life
    member of the Society.)

  =Geoghegan, Walter F.=, 537–539 West Broadway, New York City.

  =Gibbons, John T.=, merchant, corner of Poydras and South Peters
    Streets, New Orleans, La.; brother of Cardinal Gibbons.

  =Gillespie, George J.=, of the law firm Gillespie & O’Connor, 56 Pine
    Street, New York City; trustee, Catholic Summer School (Cliff
    Haven); president of Champlain Club there; member of the board of
    managers of the Roman Catholic Orphan Asylum; vice-president of the
    Particular Council, Society of St. Vincent de Paul, New York City;
    recently tax commissioner of the city of New York. (Life member of
    the Society.)

  =Gilman, John E.=, 43 Hawkins Street, Boston, Mass.; has been
    adjutant-general on the staff of the national commander-in-chief,
    Grand Army of the Republic. In August, 1862, Mr. Gilman enlisted in
    Co. E, Twelfth Massachusetts Infantry (Webster Regiment), and
    participated in the campaigns under Generals Pope, McClellan,
    Burnside, Hooker and Meade up to the battle of Gettysburg, Pa.,
    where, on July 2, 1863, his right arm was shot off near the
    shoulder. Securing his discharge from the army on Sept. 28, 1863, he
    returned to Boston. In 1864, he entered the service of the state and
    served in various departments until 1883, when he was made
    settlement clerk of the directors of Public Institutions of Boston.
    He was appointed soldiers’ relief commissioner, April 2, 1901. He
    has been a comrade of Posts 14, 7 and 26, G. A. R., since 1868,
    being commander of the latter post in 1888. He was department
    inspector of the Massachusetts G. A. R. in 1895; junior
    vice-commander in 1896; senior vice-commander in 1897; delegate at
    large in 1898; and department commander in 1899.

  =Goff, Hon. John W.=, recorder, New York City.

  =Goodwin, John=, of the John Goodwin Co., dressmakers’ supplies, 70–72
    West 23d Street, New York City. (Life member of the Society.)

  =Gorman, Dennis J.=, assessors’ office, City Hall, Boston, Mass.

  =Gorman, John F.=, lawyer, Stephen Girard Building, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Gorman, William=, lawyer, Stephen Girard Building, Philadelphia, Pa.;
    member of the Pennsylvania Bar Association, the Pennsylvania Academy
    of Fine Arts, the American Academy of Social and Political Science,
    the Alumni Association of the University of Pennsylvania, and other
    organizations. He is officially connected with the Commonwealth
    Title Insurance and Trust Co. of Philadelphia. (Life member of the
    Society.)

  =Gray, Dr. Joseph F.=, 10 North Hammels Avenue, Rockaway Beach, L. I.,
    N. Y.

  =Griffin, John F.=, insurance, Skowhegan, Me.

  =Griffin, Martin I. J.=, 2009 North 12th Street, Philadelphia, Pa.;
    editor and publisher _American Catholic Historical Researches_.

  =Griffin, Rev. P. J.=, Holyoke, Mass.

  =Griffin, Rt. Rev. Mgr. Thomas= (D. D.), St. John’s presbytery, 44
    Temple Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Guiney, John=, Biddeford, Me.

  =Hagan, James H.=, treasurer of the Park Brewing Co., 1100 Elmwood
    Avenue, Providence, R. I.

  =Haggerty, J. Henry=, of the Haggerty Refining Co., oils, 50 South
    Street, New York City.

  =Haigney, John=, 439 58th Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Halley, Charles V.=, 1014 East 175th Street, New York City.

  =Hannan, Hon. John=, mayor of Ogdensburg, N. Y.; president of the
    Ogdensburg Coal and Towing Co.

  =Hanrahan, John D.= (M. D.), Rutland, Vt., a native of County
    Limerick, Ireland; was graduated in medicine from the University of
    the City of New York, 1867; in June, 1861, he was, on examination
    (not having graduated), appointed surgeon in the United States Navy,
    and served through the entire Civil War. The vessels on which he
    served did duty mostly on the rivers of Virginia and North Carolina,
    where he served with the army as well as the navy, thereby having
    the benefit and experience of both branches of the service,
    especially in the surgical line. In August, 1863, the vessel on
    which he was serving was captured at the mouth of the Rappahannock
    River and all on board made prisoners. They were taken overland to
    Richmond where they were confined in Libby Prison. At that time the
    Confederates were very short of surgeons and medical supplies, and
    be was asked if he would go over to Belle Island and attend the
    Union prisoners. After consulting his fellow-prisoners he consented,
    and for six weeks he attended the sick and wounded Union prisoners
    faithfully, under very great disadvantages, as the appliances were
    very limited. After that he was paroled. While a prisoner of war he
    was treated with the greatest courtesy and consideration by the
    medical staff and officers of the Confederacy. After the close of
    the war he was settled in New York city, but for nearly 40 years has
    been a resident of Rutland, Vt. He was town and city physician of
    Rutland for many years. He was appointed surgeon of the Third
    Vermont Regiment, 1871, by Governor Stewart; was the first president
    of the Rutland County Medical and Surgical Society; has been a
    director and consulting surgeon of the Rutland, Vt., Hospital;
    consulting surgeon to the Fanny Allen Hospital, Winooski, Vt.; a
    member of the Vermont Sanitary Association, and a member of the
    Vermont Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis; president of
    Rutland Village two years and trustee eight years; county
    commissioner one year; president, United States pension examining
    board four years under President Cleveland, and president of same
    board four years under President Harrison. He was postmaster of
    Rutland during the second term of President Cleveland. He has since
    its organization been an active member of the G. A. R.; surgeon of
    Roberts Post, the largest in Vermont; has served three terms as
    medical director of the Department; served on the staffs of three
    commanders-in-chief—Veasy, Palmer and Weissert; a member of
    Commander-in-Chief Stewart’s staff. Dr. Hanrahan is the author of
    several medical papers, has performed many surgical operations, and
    has served through several epidemics of smallpox and diphtheria. He
    was a delegate to the Democratic National Conventions of 1884, 1888,
    and chairman of the Vermont delegation to the National Convention of
    1892. Also a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in St.
    Louis, 1904, and to the Ancient Order of Hibernians Convention in
    St. Louis, July 19, 1904.

  =Hanlon, Marcus=, P. O. Box 1920, New York City.

  =Harbison, Hon. Alexander=, Hartford, Conn, recently mayor of
    Hartford.

  =Harrington, Rev. J. C.=, rector of St. Joseph’s Church, Lynn, Mass.

  =Harrington, Rev. John M.=, Orono, Me.

  =Harrington, William F.=, Manchester, N. H.

  =Harris, Charles N.=, Tryon Row, New York City.

  =Harrison, A. J.=, 514 East 23d Street, New York City.

  =Harson, M. Joseph=, Catholic Club, 120 Central Park South, New York
    City.

  =Hart, Frank M.=, 335 Carroll Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Hayes, John F.= (M. D.), 15 South Elm Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Hayes, Nicholas J.=, fire commissioner, 157–159 East 67th Street, New
    York City.

  =Hayes, Col. Patrick E.=, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Hayes, Timothy J.=, 688 Lafayette Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Healy, John F.=, general superintendent of the Davis Coal and Coke
    Co., Thomas, Tucker County, W. Va.

  =Healy, Col. John G.=, insurance, 117 Sherman Avenue, New Haven,
    Conn.; a captain in the Ninth Connecticut Infantry, April, 1862, to
    October, 1864. Upon the consolidation of the regiment, in the latter
    year, into the Ninth Battalion he, being the senior captain, was
    given command of the latter. On December 1, 1864, he was promoted
    lieutenant-colonel and as such commanded the battalion until the
    same was mustered out. Since the war he has been vice-president of
    the Nineteenth Army Corps Association. When Luzon B. Morris was
    governor of Connecticut, Colonel Healy served on his staff as
    assistant adjutant-general. Colonel Healy is a member of the
    Military Order of the Loyal Legion, of the Army and Navy Club of
    Connecticut, and of the Second Company of the Governor’s Foot Guard,
    New Haven.

  =Healy, Richard=, Main Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Hennessy, Dr. Daniel=, Bangor, Me.

  =Hennessy, Michael E.=, on the staff of the _Boston Daily Globe_; a
    newspaper man of wide experience and exceptional ability. One of the
    most highly-valued men on the _Globe_, he is regularly assigned to
    “cover” events of national importance and annually travels thousands
    of miles in the service of his paper.

  =Henry, Charles T.=, 120 Liberty Street, New York City.

  =Hickey, James G.=, manager of the United States Hotel, Boston, Mass.
    (Life member of the Society.)

  =Hickey, Michael J.=, manufacturer, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Hickey, Rev. William A.=, Clinton, Mass.

  =Higgins, James J.=, 85 Court Street, Elizabeth, N. J.

  =Hoban, Rt. Rev. M. J.= (D. D.), Scranton, Pa., bishop of the Roman
    Catholic diocese of Scranton.

  =Hogan, Charles M.=, with Siegel Cooper Co., Sixth Avenue, 18th and
    19th Streets, New York City.

  =Hogan, John W.=, lawyer, 4 Weybosset Street, Providence, R. I.;
    recently a candidate for Congress.

  =Holland, John P.=, 95 Nelson Place, Newark, N. J.; inventor of the
    submarine torpedo boat.

  =Horigan, Cornelius=, 229 and 231 Main Street, Biddeford, Me.; is
    treasurer of the Andrews & Horigan Co.; has been a member of the
    state Legislature of Maine.

  =Howes, Osborne=, secretary and treasurer of the Board of Fire
    Underwriters, 45 Kilby Street, Boston, Mass. He is a descendant of
    David O’Killa (O’Kelly), who settled on Cape Cod as early as 1657,
    and who is mentioned in the old Yarmouth, Mass., records as “the
    Irishman.” The records show that at the close of King Philip’s War,
    O’Killa was assessed his proportionate part toward defraying the
    expenses of that struggle.

  =Hughes, Rev. Christopher=, Fall River, Mass.

  =Hurley, John E.=, 63 Washington Street, Providence, R. I.;
    vice-president and superintendent of the Remington Printing Co.;
    president, in 1904, of the Rhode Island Master Printers’
    Association.

  =Jameson, W. R.=, 1786 Bathgate Avenue, borough of the Bronx, New York
    City.

  =Jenkinson, Richard C.=, 678 High Street, Newark, N. J.; of R. C.
    Jenkinson & Co., manufacturers of metal goods; candidate for mayor
    of Newark in 1901; was president of the Newark Board of Trade in
    1898–’99 and 1900; has been a director in the Newark Gas Co.; was
    president of the New Jersey Commission to the Pan-American
    Exposition, and one of the vice-presidents of the Exposition,
    representing the state of New Jersey by appointment of Governor
    Voorhees.

  =Jennings, Michael J.=, 753 Third Avenue, New York City.

  =Johnson, James G.=, of James G. Johnson & Co., 649, 651, 653 and 655
    Broadway. New York City.

  =Jordan, Michael J.=, lawyer, 42 Court Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Joyce, Bernard J.=, salesman, 7 Water Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Joyce, John Jay=, 47 Macdougal Street, New York City.

  =Kane, Dr. John H.=, Lexington, Mass.

  =Keane, Most Rev. John J.= (D. D.), Dubuque, Ia.; archbishop of the
    Roman Catholic archdiocese of Dubuque.

  =Kearney, James=, lawyer, 220 Broadway, New York City.

  =Keating, Patrick M.=, of the law firm Gargan, Keating & Brackett,
    Pemberton Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Keenan, John J.=, Public Library, Copley Square, Boston, Mass.

  =Kehoe, John F.=, 26 Broadway, New York City; officially connected
    with many corporations. (Life member of the Society.)

  =Kelly, Eugene=, Temple Court Building, New York City.

  =Kelly, John Forrest= (Ph. D.), Pittsfield, Mass.; born near
    Carrick-on-Suir, Ireland. He was educated in Stevens Institute of
    Technology, Hoboken, N. J., received the degree of B. L. in 1878,
    and that of Ph. D. in 1881. His first occupation was as assistant to
    Thomas A. Edison, in Menlo Park laboratory, his work then
    principally relating to the chemistry of rare earths. Late in 1879
    Mr. Kelly became electrical engineer of the New York branch of the
    Western Electric Company. This was the time when the telephone was
    being generally introduced, and when dynamos were being first
    applied to telegraphic purposes. In the construction and installment
    of instruments for telegraphy and telephones and of such measuring
    instruments as were then known, Mr. Kelly received a thorough
    training. In 1882 he became laboratory assistant to Edward Weston,
    then chief electrician of the United States Electric Lighting
    Company, and, with the exception of a year which he spent in
    connection with the Remingtons, Mr. Kelly continued his association
    with Mr. Weston until July, 1886. Some of the most important work,
    such as the research which ended in the discovery of high resistance
    alloys of very low or even negative temperature co-efficients, were
    substantially carried out by Mr. Kelly under general directions from
    Mr. Weston, whom Mr. Kelly succeeded as chief electrician of the
    United States Electric Lighting Company, which, in 1889, passed to
    the Westinghouse interests; but Mr. Kelly retained his position as
    chief electrician until January, 1892, when he resigned to join
    William Stanley in experimental work. The work done by Mr. Kelly, in
    this connection, gave a great impetus to the alternating current
    business. Mr. Kelly’s inventive work is partially represented by
    eighty patents. The art of building transformers and generators of
    alternating currents was revolutionized, and Mr. Kelly and his
    colleagues were the first to put polyphase motors into actual
    commercial service. That success naturally led to long-distance
    transmission work, and the first long-distance transmission plants
    in California (indeed the first in the world) were undertaken on Mr.
    Kelly’s recommendation and advice. He was the first to make an
    hysteretically stable steel, a matter of vastly more importance than
    the comparatively spectacular transmission work. Mr. Kelly at
    present occupies the position of president of the John F. Kelly
    Engineering Company, president of the Cokel Company and president of
    the Telelectric Company, as well as president of the Conchas River
    Power Company and director of the Southwestern Exploration Company.
    The Cokel Company is organized to exploit the invention of Mr. E. W.
    Cooke, by means of which foodstuffs may be perfectly dehydrated,
    losing on the average ninety per cent. in weight. Foods dehydrated
    by this process, although free from all chemical preservatives, are
    entirely stable, and yet preserve their pristine freshness through
    extremes of temperature, and when served are indistinguishable from
    fresh foods of the ordinary type. The Telelectric Company is
    organized for the manufacture of electric piano players, which are
    either entirely automatic or entirely controllable at will. Mr.
    Kelly was married to Miss Helen Fischer, in New York City, in 1892,
    and they have two children—Eoghan and Domnall. Mr. Kelly is a
    thorough and unswerving Irish Nationalist, and his splendid
    generosity to the cause is well known.

  =Kelly, Michael F.= (M. D.), Fall River, Mass.

  =Kelly, T. P.=, 544 West 22d Street, New York City; of T. P. Kelly &
    Co., manufacturers of black leads, foundry facings, supplies, etc.

  =Kelly, William J.=, 9 Dove Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Kelly, William J.=, insurance, Kittery, Me., and Portsmouth, N. H.

  =Kenedy, P. J.=, 3 and 5 Barclay Street, New York City.

  =Kennedy, Charles F.=, Brewer, Me.

  =Kennedy, Daniel=, 197 Berkeley Place, Brooklyn, N. Y.; of the Kennedy
    Valve Manufacturing Co., Coxsackie, N. Y.

  =Kennedy, Roderick J.=, 924 Sixth Avenue, New York City.

  =Kenney, James W.=, Park Brewery, Terrace Street, Roxbury (Boston),
    Mass.; vice-president and director, Federal Trust Co., Boston.

  =Kenney, Thomas=, 143 Summer Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Kenney, Thomas F.= (M. D.), Vienna, Austria.

  =Kent, Daniel V.=, Kansas City, Mo.

  =Kerby, John E.=, architect, 452 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

  =Kiernan, Patrick=, 265 West 43d Street, New York City.

  =Killoren, Hon. Andrew=, Dover, N. H.; recently a senator of New
    Hampshire.

  =Kilmartin, Thomas J.=, (M. D.), Waterbury, Conn.

  =Kilroy, Patrick=, lawyer, Main Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Kilroy, Philip= (M. D.), Springfield, Mass.

  =Kinney, Thomas I.=, Whitney Avenue, New Haven, Conn.; recently
    candidate for mayor of New Haven.

  =Kinsela, John F.=, 509 Gorham Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Kivel, Hon. John=, Dover, N. H.

  =Knights of St. Patrick=, San Francisco, Cal. (Life membership.) Care
    of John Mulhern, 124 Market Street, San Francisco.

  =Lally, Frank=, 161 Saratoga Street, East Boston, Mass.

  =Lamb, Matthew B.=, 516 Main Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Lamson, Col. Daniel S.=, Weston, Mass.; Lieutenant-Colonel commanding
    Sixteenth Regiment (Mass.), 1861; A. A. G., Norfolk, 1862; served on
    staff of General Hooker; is a member of the Society of Colonial
    Wars, Sons of the American Revolution, and Military Order of the
    Loyal Legion; one of his ancestors landed at Ipswich, Mass., in
    1632, and received a grant of 350 acres; another ancestor, Samuel,
    of Reading, Mass., participated in King Philip’s War and had a son
    in the expedition of 1711. Another member of the family, Samuel of
    Weston, commanded a company at Concord, Mass., April 19, 1775, and
    was major and colonel of the Third Middlesex Regiment for many
    years, dying in 1795.

  =Lappin, J. J.=, 7 Grant Street, Portland, Me.

  =Lavelle, John=, Inquiry Division, Post Office, Cleveland, O.

  =Lawler, Thomas B.=, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York City; with Ginn &
    Company, publishers; member of the American Oriental Society and of
    the Archæological Society of America.

  =Lawless, Hon. Joseph T.=, lawyer, Norfolk, Va.; recently secretary of
    state, Virginia.

  =Leahy, Matthew W.=, 257 Franklin Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Lee, Hon. Thomas Z.=, of the law firm Barney & Lee, Industrial Trust
    Building, Providence, R. I.

  =Lembeck, Gustav W.=, of Lembeck & Betz, Eagle Brewing Co., 173 Ninth
    Street, Jersey City, N. J.

  =Lenehan, John J.=, of the law firm Lenehan & Dowley, 165 Broadway,
    New York City. (Life member of the Society.)

  =Lenihan, Rev. B. C.=, Fort Dodge, Iowa.

  =Lenihan, Rt. Rev. M. C.=, bishop of the Roman Catholic diocese of
    Great Falls, Mont.

  =Lennox, George W.=, manufacturer, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Leonard, Peter F.=, 343 Harvard Street, Cambridge, Mass.

  =Linehan, John J.=, Linehan Corset Co., Worcester, Mass.

  =Linehan, Rev. T. P.=, Biddeford, Me.

  =Lonergan, Thomas S.=, journalist, 665 Broadway, New York City.

  =Loughlin, Peter J.=, Court House, Chambers Street, New York City.

  =Lovell, David B.= (M. D.), 32 Pearl Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Luddy, Timothy F.=, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Lyman, William=, 51 East 122d Street, New York City.

  =Lynch, Bernard E.=, lawyer, 42 Church Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Lynch, Eugene=, 24 India Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Lynch, J. H.=, Dyker Heights, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Lynch, John E.=, school principal, Worcester, Mass.

  =Lynch, Thomas J.=, lawyer, Augusta, Me.; was city clerk of Augusta,
    1884 and 1885; postmaster of Augusta from 1894 to 1898; and trustee
    of the Public Library; is now one of the water commissioners; a
    director of the Granite National Bank; trustee of the Kennebec
    Savings Bank; trustee of the Augusta Trust Company; president of the
    Augusta Loan & Building Association; director of the Augusta,
    Winthrop & Gardiner Railway; director of the Augusta Real Estate
    Association; and trustee of many estates.

  =Lynn, John=, 48 Bond Street, New York City.

  =Lynn, Hon. Wauhope=, 257 Broadway, New York City; recently a judge of
    one of the New York courts.

  =MacDonnell, John T. F.=, paper manufacturer, Holyoke, Mass.

  =Magenis, James P.=, of the law firm McConnell, Magenis & McConnell,
    Tremont Building, Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Magrane, P. B.=, dry goods merchant, Lynn, Mass.

  =Magrath, Patrick F.=, 244 Front Street, Binghamton, N. Y.; with the
    George A. Kent Company, Binghamton, wholesale cigar manufacturers.
    He has been connected with this house for the past twenty-seven
    years, for twenty of which he has been its Eastern representative.
    (Life member of the Society.)

  =Maguire, P. J.=, 204 Madison Street, New York City.

  =Maher, Stephen J.= (M. D.), 212 Orange Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Mahony, William H.=, dry goods, 844 Eighth Avenue, New York City.
    (Life member of the Society.)

  =Malloy, Gen. A. G.=, El Paso, Texas; a veteran of the Mexican and
    Civil wars; during the latter conflict he was successively major,
    colonel and brigadier-general; has been collector of the port of
    Galveston.

  =Maloney, Cornelius=, publisher of the _Daily Democrat_, Waterbury,
    Conn.

  =Maloney, Dr. Thomas E.=, North Main Street, Fall River, Mass.

  =Marshall, Rev. George F.=, rector of St. Paul’s Church, Milford, N.
    H.

  =Martin, James=, managing editor, _New York Tribune_, New York City.

  =Martin, Hon. John B.=, penal institutions commissioner, 762 Fourth
    Street, South Boston, Mass.

  =McAdoo, Hon. William=, police commissioner of the city of New York;
    ex-member of Congress; ex-assistant secretary of the navy; member of
    the law firm McAdoo & Crosby, 25 Broad Street, New York City.

  =McAleenan, Arthur=, 131 West 69th Street, New York City.

  =McAleer, Dr. George=, Worcester, Mass.

  =McAlevy, John F.=, salesman, 26–50 North Main Street, Pawtucket, R.
    I.

  =McAuliffe, John F.=, engraver, with the Livermore & Knight Co.,
    Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.; born in New York City, Nov.
    4, 1856; educated in that city; learned the art of bank note
    engraving. His father’s father was a parishioner and intimate
    friend, in Ireland, of Rev. Theobald Mathew.

  =McBride, D. H.=, to Barclay Street, New York City. Dealer in
    ecclesiastical works in Italian marble, stained glass windows,
    church furnishings, etc.

  =McCaffrey, Hugh=, manufacturer, Fifth and Berks Streets,
    Philadelphia, Pa. (Life member of the Society.)

  =McCall, John A.=, president of the New York Life Insurance Co., New
    York City. (Life member of the Society.)

  =McCanna, Francis I.=, lawyer, Industrial Trust Building, Providence,
    R. I.

  =McCarrick, James W.=, general southern agent, Clyde Steamship Co.,
    Norfolk, Va. Mr. McCarrick is a veteran of the Civil War. He was
    transferred, 1861, from Twelfth Virginia regiment to North Carolina
    gunboat _Winslow_, and appointed master’s mate. Transferred to
    Confederate navy with that steamer, and ordered to Confederate
    steamer _Seabird_, at Norfolk navy yard. Attached to _Seabird_ until
    latter was sunk. Taken prisoner, Elizabeth City, N. C. Paroled
    February, 1862. Exchanged for officer of similar rank captured from
    United States ship _Congress_. Promoted to master and ordered to
    navy yard, Selma, Ala. Served later on Confederate steamships
    _Tuscaloosa_, _Baltic_ and _Tennessee_ at Mobile, and in Mobile Bay,
    and on steamer _Macon_, at Savannah, and on Savannah River. Detailed
    to command water battery at Shell Bluff, below Augusta, after
    surrender of Savannah. Paroled from steamship _Macon_ at Augusta,
    Ga., after Johnson’s surrender.

  =McCarthy, Charles, Jr.=, Portland, Me.

  =McCarthy, George W.=, of Dennett & McCarthy, dry goods, Portsmouth,
    N. H.

  =McCarthy, M. R. F.=, 82 Court Street, Binghamton, N. Y.; a
    commissioner of the department of Public Instruction.

  =McCarthy, Patrick J.=, lawyer, Industrial Trust Building, Providence,
    R. I.; has been a member of the General Assembly of Rhode Island.

  =McCaughan, Rev. John P.=, Holyoke, Mass.

  =McCaughey, Bernard=, of Bernard McCaughey & Co., house furnishers,
    Pawtucket, R. I.

  =McClean, Rev. Peter H.=, Milford, Conn.

  =McConway, William=, of the McConway & Torley Co., Pittsburg, Pa.
    (Life member of the Society.)

  =McCormick, Edward R.=, 15 West 38th Street, New York City.

  =McCoy, Rev. John J.=, rector of the Church of the Holy Name,
    Chicopee, Mass.

  =McCready, Rt. Rev. Mgr. Charles=, 329 West 42d Street, New York City.

  =McCreery, Robert=, room 427, Produce Exchange, New York City.

  =McCullough, John=, 55 Maxfield Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =McDonald, Mitchell C.=, care Navy Department, Washington, D. C.;
    paymaster, U. S. N.

  =McDonnell, Peter=, 2 Battery Place, New York City; general railroad,
    steamship and banking business; agent, New York, Ontario & Western
    Railway.

  =McDonnell, Robert E.=, lawyer, 206 Broadway, New York City.

  =McDonough, Hon. John J.=, Fall River, Mass.; justice of the second
    district court of Bristol County, Mass.

  =McEldowney, W. A.=, 225 Sixth Street, Ashland, N. J.

  =McElroy, Rev. Charles J.=, rector of St. Mary’s church, Derby, Conn.

  =McEvoy, John W.=, 137 Central Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =McGann, James E.=, real estate, 902 Chapel Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =McGauran, Michael S.= (M. D.), Lawrence, Mass.

  =McGillicuddy, Hon. D. J.=, of the law firm McGillicuddy & Morey,
    Lewiston, Me.; ex-mayor of Lewiston.

  =McGolrick, Rev. E. J.=, 84 Herbert Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =McGolrick, Rt. Rev. James= (D. D.), bishop of the Roman Catholic
    diocese of Duluth, Minn. (Life member of the Society.)

  =McGovern, James=, 6 Wall Street, New York City. (Life member of the
    Society.)

  =McGovern, Joseph P.=, of J. P. McGovern & Bro., fur brokers, 193
    Greene Street, New York City.

  =McGowan, Rear Admiral John=, U. S. N. (retired), 1739 N Street, N.
    W., Washington, D. C. (Life member of the Society.)

  =McGowan, P. F.=, manufacturer, 224 East 12th Street, New York City;
    member of the board of education. (Life member of the Society.)

  =McGuire, Edward J.=, lawyer, 52 Wall Street, New York City.

  =McGurrin, F. E.=, of F. E. McGurrin & Co., investment bankers,
    Security Trust Building, Salt Lake City, Utah; president of the Salt
    Lake Security & Trust Co.

  =McIntyre, John F.=, of the law firm Cantor, Adams & McIntyre, 25
    Broad Street, New York City.

  =McKelleget, George F.=, of the law firm R. J. & G. F. McKelleget,
    Pemberton Building, Boston, Mass.

  =McKelleget, Richard J.=, of the law firm R. J. & G. F. McKelleget,
    Pemberton Building, Boston, Mass.

  =McLaughlin, Henry V.= (M. D.), 40 Kent Street, Brookline, Mass.

  =McLaughlin, John=, builder, 348 East 81st Street, New York City.

  =McLaughlin, Marcus J.=, 250 West 25th Street, New York City.

  =McLaughlin, Thomas=, Hallowell, Me.

  =McLaughlin, Thomas F.=, 19 East 87th Street, New York City.

  =McMahon, James=, 51 Chambers Street, New York City.

  =McMahon, Rev. John W.= (D. D.), rector of St. Mary’s church,
    Charlestown (Boston), Mass.

  =McManus, Col. John=, 87 Dorrance Street, Providence, R. I.; was
    appointed colonel of the Rhode Island Guards regiment by Governor
    Van Zandt, in 1887; was one of the commissioners to revise the
    militia laws of the state; aide-de-camp, with the rank of colonel,
    on the staff of Governor Davis of Rhode Island; has been prominently
    identified with all movements for the betterment of Ireland—his
    native land; is of the firm John McManus & Co., prominent clothing
    merchants of Providence.

  =McManus, Michael=, of McManus & Co., Fall River, Mass.

  =McManus, Rev. Michael T.=, rector of St. Mary’s Church of the
    Assumption, Brookline, Mass.

  =McNamee, Hon. John H. H.=, 51 Frost Street, Cambridge, Mass.;
    recently mayor of Cambridge.

  =McOwen, Anthony=, 515 Wales Avenue, Borough of the Bronx, New York
    City.

  =McPartland, John E.=, Park Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =McQuade, E. A.=, 75–77 Market Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =McQuaid, Rev. William P.=, rector of St. James Church, Harrison
    Avenue, Boston, Mass.

  =McSweeney, Edward F.=, _Evening Traveler_, Summer Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =McWalters, John P.=, 141 Broadway, New York City.

  =Meade, Richard W.=, 817 Eighth Avenue, New York City; son of the
    first president-general of the society.

  =Mellen, Hon. W. M. E.= (M. D.), Chicopee, Mass.; ex-mayor of
    Chicopee.

  =Milholland, John E.=, Witherspoon Building, Philadelphia, Pa.;
    president of the Batcheller Pneumatic Tube Co., of Philadelphia;
    president of the Pneumatic Dispatch Manufacturing Co., of
    Pennsylvania; director in the Pearsall Pneumatic Tube and Power Co.,
    of New York, and a director in the Pneumatic Transit Co., of New
    Jersey. Under him the successful pneumatic tube of the large
    diameter have been constructed, and it is largely due to his energy
    and effort that the U. S. post-office department now considers a
    part of its general delivery system the pneumatic tube service. He
    is a member of the Transportation Club of New York, the New York
    Press Club, the Republican Club, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the
    American Museum of Natural History, and a number of other
    organizations.

  =Molony, Henry A.=, of Molony & Carter, 16 New Street, Charleston, S.
    C.

  =Monaghan, Hon. James Charles=, chief of the Bureau of Statistics of
    the U. S. Department of Commerce and Labor, Washington, D. C.;
    formerly U. S. consul at Mannheim and at Chemnitz; recently
    professor of Commerce, University of Wisconsin.

  =Monaghan, Rt. Rev. John J.= (D. D.), bishop of the Roman Catholic
    diocese of Wilmington, Del.

  =Montfort, Richard=, Louisville, Ky.; chief engineer of the Louisville
    & Nashville R. R.

  =Montgomery, Gen. Phelps=, 39 Church Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Moore, O’Brien=, president and general manager of The Citizen
    Printing and Publishing Co., Tucson, Ariz. On the breaking out of
    the war with Spain, he entered the service as lieutenant-colonel of
    the Second West Virginia Infantry. After a year’s service, and peace
    being declared with Spain, he became lieutenant-colonel of U. S.
    Volunteers for the operations in the Philippines, where he served
    for eighteen months, until his regiment was mustered out. He then
    settled in Tucson, and is now head of a valuable newspaper plant,
    which issues a daily and a weekly. (Life member of the Society.)

  =Moran, Col. James=, Providence, R. I.; a veteran of the Civil War. He
    was appointed second lieutenant in the Third Regiment, Rhode Island
    Volunteers, by Special Orders 53, A. G. O., R. I., Aug. 27, 1861;
    was commissioned second lieutenant, Fifth Rhode Island Heavy
    Artillery, Nov. 5, 1861; mustered in, Dec. 16, 1861; in command of
    Company A, from Aug. 8, 1862, until Sept. 20, 1862; assumed command
    of Company D, Sept. 26, 1862; was commissioned captain and mustered
    in as such Feb. 14, 1863; on General Court Martial, July, 1863; in
    command of Fort Amory, at Newberne, N. C., from Sept. 1, 1863, until
    Oct. 15, 1863; assumed command of Post, at Hatteras Inlet, N. C.,
    April 21, 1864; in command of Forts Foster and Parke, at Roanoke
    Island, from May 2, 1864, until January, 1865; mustered out Jan. 17,
    1865. In May, 1873, he was commissioned colonel of the Rhode Island
    Guards Regiment, and in June, 1887, became colonel of the Second
    Regiment, Brigade of Rhode Island Militia.

  =Moran, Dr. James=, 345 West 58th Street, New York City.

  =Morgan, John=, 44 West 46th Street, New York City.

  =Morkan, Michael J.=, P. O. Box 543, Hartford, Conn.

  =Moriarty, John=, 135 Broadway, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Morrissy, Thomas=, 48–50 West 14th Street, New York City.

  =Moseley, Edward A.=, Washington, D. C., president-general of the
    Society in 1897 and 1898. He succeeded to the position, in the
    former year, on the death of Admiral Meade, who was the first
    president-general of the organization. Mr. Moseley is secretary of
    the U. S. Interstate Commerce Commission. He is ninth in descent
    from Lieut. Thaddeus Clark, who came from Ireland, and died in
    Portland, Me., May 16, 1690. Clark was lieutenant of a company of
    men engaged in the defence of Falmouth, now Portland, during the
    Indian War. He fell into ambuscade with his company while making a
    reconnoitre, and was killed with twelve of his men. Mr. Moseley is
    also a descendant of Deputy-Governor Cleeves (or Cleaves), a founder
    of Portland, formerly Falmouth, and is sixth in descent from Lieut.
    John Brown of Belfast, Me., who came with his father from
    Londonderry, Ire., and was one of the settlers of Londonderry, N.
    H.; Brown was chairman of the First Board of Selectmen of Belfast,
    Me., chosen Nov. 11, 1773, ’74 and ’75; he removed from Londonderry,
    N. H. While residing there he had been a commissioned officer in the
    Provincial Army, and had served in the French War. Mr. Moseley is
    also of patriotic Revolutionary stock, and is a member of the
    Society of Cincinnati.

  =Moynahan, Bartholomew=, lawyer, 120 Broadway, New York City; official
    stenographer to the New York Supreme Court.

  =Mullen, John F.=, 26 Trask Street, Providence, R. I.; foreman,
    Wildprett & Saacke, gold ring manufacturers; musical director, St.
    Joseph’s Church, Providence, 1886–1888; solo baritone, St. Michael’s
    Church, since 1893; musical director, Rhode Island Irish Language
    Society, 1896–1897; assistant director, Gesang Verein Einklang,
    since 1897.

  =Murphy, D. P., Jr.=, 31 Barclay Street, New York City.

  =Murphy, Edward J.=, of the Edward J. Murphy Co., real estate brokers,
    Springfield, Mass.

  =Murphy, Frank J.=, 109 Mason Street, Salem, Mass.

  =Murphy, Fred C.=, of the Edward J. Murphy Co., Springfield, Mass.

  =Murphy, James=, 42 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Murphy, James R.=, lawyer, 27 School Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Murphy, Hon. John R.=, lawyer, Boston, Mass.

  =Murray, John F.=, captain of police, Cambridge, Mass.; residence, 9
    Avon Street.

  =Murray, Hon. Lawrence O.=, assistant secretary, U. S. Department of
    Commerce and Labor, Washington, D. C. He is a lawyer by profession.
    He first went to Washington as secretary to William Edmund Curtis,
    assistant secretary of the treasury. Subsequently, he held other
    positions in the treasury, including that of chief of division, and,
    from Sept. 1, 1898, to June 27, 1899, that of deputy comptroller of
    the currency. He left the government employment to become the trust
    officer of the American Trust Company, continuing in that place for
    three years. He then went to Chicago as secretary of the Central
    Trust Company of Illinois and served there for two years before
    becoming assistant secretary of commerce and labor.

  =Murray, Michael J.=, lawyer, 27 School Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Murray, Patrick=, insurance, 318 West 52d Street, New York City.

  =Murray, Thomas Hamilton=, 36 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass.;
    secretary-general of the Society; a newspaper man of twenty years’
    experience, during which he has been editorially connected with
    journals in Boston and Lawrence, Mass., Providence, R. I., and
    Bridgeport and Meriden, Conn.; has devoted much attention to
    historical research, particularly in relation to the Irish element
    in American history, and has delivered addresses on the subject
    before the New England Historic, Genealogical Society; the Rhode
    Island Historical Society; the Phi Kappa Sigma of Brown University;
    the Boston Charitable Irish Society (founded 1737), and other
    organizations; is the author of a number of papers, pamphlets and
    books.

  =Neagle, Rev. Richard=, Malden, Mass.

  =O’Beirne, Gen. James R.=, 290 Broadway, New York City. In military
    life he has held every commissioned rank up to brevet
    brigadier-general of volunteers; has also been provost marshal,
    District of Columbia; deputy U. S. marshal, District of Columbia;
    register of wills, District of Columbia; editor _Sunday Gazette_,
    Washington, D. C.; special agent U. S. Indian affairs; special agent
    U. S. treasury department; assistant U. S. commissioner of
    immigration at New York City; commissioner of charities, New York
    City; commander U. S. Medal of Honor Legion. In business life has
    been president of Yonkers Electric Light Co.; secretary of
    Flemington Coal and Coke Co. of West Virginia, and treasurer of
    Manhattan Distilling Co. In social life, president of the United
    Irish societies of New York City and vicinity, and member of various
    clubs and other organizations.

  =O’Brien, Hon. C. D.=, lawyer, Globe Building, St. Paul, Minn.;
    prosecuting attorney of Ramsey County, Minn., from 1874 to 1878;
    assistant U. S. district attorney from 1870 to 1873; mayor of St.
    Paul from 1883 to 1885.

  =O’Brien, Dennis F.=, of the law firm Sheahan & O’Brien, Banigan
    Building, Providence, R. I.

  =O’Brien, Rev. James J.=, 185 Summer Street, Somerville, Mass.; a son
    of the late Mayor Hugh O’Brien of Boston, Mass.

  =O’Brien, John D.=, Bank of Minnesota Building, St. Paul, Minn.; of
    the law firm Stevens, O’Brien, Cole & Albrecht.

  =O’Brien, Hon. Morgan J.= (LL. D.), 729 Park Avenue, New York City; a
    justice of the New York Supreme Court; trustee of the New York
    Public Library.

  =O’Brien, Patrick=, of Driscoll & O’Brien, contractors, 399 South
    Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  =O’Byrne, M. A.=, 370 West 118th Street, New York City.

  =O’Callaghan, Rev. Denis= (D. D.), rector of St. Augustine’s Church,
    South Boston, Mass.

  =O’Connell, Rt. Rev. Mgr. Denis Joseph= (S. T. D.), rector of the
    Catholic University, Washington, D. C.

  =O’Connell, John=, 302 West End Avenue, New York City.

  =O’Connell, John F.=, 306 Broadway, Providence, R. I.

  =O’Connell, Joseph F.=, lawyer, 53 State Street, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Connell, P. A.=, vice-president of the Wm. Filene’s Sons Co., dry
    goods, 453–463 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Connor, Edward=, 302 Broadway, New York City.

  =O’Connor, Hon. J. J.=, 414–416 Carroll Street. Elmira, N. Y. (Life
    member of the Society.)

  =O’Connor, J. L.=, Ogdensburg, N. Y.

  =O’Connor, M. P.=, Binghamton, N. Y. (Life member of the Society.)

  =O’Doherty, Rev. James=, Haverhill, Mass. (Life member of the
    Society.)

  =O’Doherty, Hon. Matt.=, Louisville, Ky.; a judge of the
    Circuit-Court.

  =O’Donovan, Jeremiah (Rossa)=, Cork County Council, Cork, Ireland;
    late of New York City.

  =O’Donnell, Rev. James H.=, Norwalk, Conn.

  =O’Donnell, Hon. John B.=, lawyer, Northampton, Mass.; ex-mayor of
    Northampton.

  =O’Dwyer, Hon. E. F.=, 37 West 76th Street, New York City; chief
    justice of the City Court of New York.

  =O’Farrell, P. A.=, Waldorf-Astoria, New York City. (Life member of
    the Society.)

  =O’Flaherty, James=, advertising, 22 North William Street, New York
    City.

  =O’Flynn, Rev. D. P.=, 138 Waverly Place, New York City.

  =O’Gorman, Hon. J. A.=, 318 West 108th Street, New York City; a
    justice of the New York Supreme Court.

  =O’Gorman, Thomas A.=, the O’Gorman Co., dry goods, Providence, R. I.

  =O’Hagan, Thomas= (Ph. D.), 151 Mutual Street, Toronto, Canada.

  =O’Herin, William=, Parsons, Labette County, Kan.; superintendent of
    machinery and equipment, Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway. (Life
    member of the Society.)

  =O’Keefe, Edmund=, superintendent of buildings, New Bedford, Mass.

  =O’Keefe, John A.=, 25 Exchange Street, Lynn, Mass.; a native of
    Rockport, Mass.; was graduated from Harvard College, class of 1880;
    member of the Phi Beta Kappa; taught school in Housatonic, Mass.;
    was elected submaster of the Lynn, Mass., High School in 1881 and
    headmaster of the same in 1885; became a member of the teaching
    staff of the English High School, Boston, Mass.; studied law; was
    admitted to the bar of Essex County, Mass., and has since practiced
    law in Lynn. In 1897 he was the Democratic candidate for
    attorney-general of Massachusetts. Member of the Lynn Board of
    Associated Charities; member of the New England Association of
    Colleges and Preparatory Schools; of the Essex Institute, and of the
    Executive Board of the Civic League of Lynn. Among Mr. O’Keefe’s
    classmates at Harvard were: Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, president of
    the United States; Hon. William S. Andrews, justice of the New York
    Supreme Court; Robert Bacon, partner of J. P. Morgan; Harold N.
    Fowler, professor of Latin; Hon. Josiah Quincy, mayor of Boston,
    Mass.; Albert Bushnell Hart, historian and professor, and many other
    people of note.

  =O’Leary, Jeremiah=, 275 Fifty-eighth Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =O’Leary, P. J.=, 161 West 13th Street, New York City.

  =O’Loughlin, Patrick=, lawyer, 23 Court Street, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Malley, Thomas F.=, lawyer, 21 Dane Street, Somerville, Mass.

  =O’Meara, Maurice=, of the Maurice O’Meara Co., paper manufacturers,
    448 Pearl Street, New York City.

  =O’Neil, Frank S.=, lawyer, O’Neil Building, Binghamton, N. Y.

  =O’Neil, Hon. Joseph H.=, president of the Federal Trust Co., Boston,
    Mass.; formerly a member of Congress; was later U. S. Treasurer at
    Boston.

  =O’Neil, Rev. John P.=, Peterborough, N. H.

  =O’Neill, Rev. Daniel H.=, 935 Main Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =O’Neill, Rev. D. P.=, Westchester, N. Y.

  =O’Neill, Eugene M.=, Pittsburg, Pa. (Life member of the Society.)

  =O’Neill, Francis Q.=, Charleston, S. C., of the firm Bernard O’Neill
    & Sons (house founded in 1845); president of the Hibernia Trust and
    Savings Bank, Charleston; president of the Standard Truck Package
    Co.; president of the Riverside Paper Box Factory; director, First
    National Bank; director, Equitable Fire Insurance Co.; an alderman
    of Charleston, and mayor _pro tem._ of the city; president of the
    Charleston Country Club; member of the Board of Trustees of the
    College of Charleston.

  =O’Neill, James L.=, 220 Franklin Street, Elizabeth, N. J.; connected
    with the Elizabeth post office for the past sixteen years; has been
    president of the Young Men’s Father Mathew T. A. Society, and
    treasurer of St. Patrick’s Alliance, Elizabeth. He was one of the
    prime movers in the projection and completion of a monument to the
    late Mayor Mack of Elizabeth.

  =O’Rourke, Hon. Jeremiah=, of J. O’Rourke & Sons, architects, 756
    Broad Street, Newark, N. J.; U. S. Supervising Architect under
    President Cleveland. (Life member of the Society.)

  =O’Rourke, John F.=, consulting and contracting engineer, 26 Nassau
    Street, New York City.

  =O’Sullivan, Humphrey=, treasurer of the O’Sullivan Rubber Co.,
    Lowell, Mass.

  =O’Sullivan, James=, president of the O’Sullivan Rubber Co., Lowell,
    Mass.

  =O’Sullivan, John=, with the H. B. Claflin Co., Church Street, New
    York City.

  =O’Sullivan, Sylvester J.=, 66 Liberty Street, New York City, manager
    of the New York office of the United States Fidelity and Guaranty
    Co., of Baltimore. Md.

  =Owens, Joseph E.=, of the law firm Ketcham & Owens, 189 Montague
    Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Patterson, Rev. George J.=, rector of St. Vincent’s Church, South
    Boston, Mass.

  =Phelan, Hon. James D.=, Phelan Building, San Francisco, Cal.;
    recently mayor of San Francisco.

  =Phelan, James J.=, 16 Exchange Place, New York City; president of the
    Traders’ and Travelers’ Accident Co.; treasurer of the King’s County
    Refrigerating Co., Astoria Cordage Co., and the Pontiac Building
    Co.; director in the Stuyvesant Insurance Co. When Ferdinand de
    Lesseps contracted to build the Panama Canal, Mr. Phelan became
    treasurer and manager of the American Contracting and Dredging Co.,
    in which he was associated with the late Eugene Kelly, H. B. Slaven
    and others. This company contracted for and built fifteen miles of
    the canal. In 1891 Mr. Phelan was appointed treasurer of the
    Department of Docks of the city of New York, which office he held
    for five years.

  =Phelan, John J.=, lawyer, 7 Wall Street, New York City; graduate of
    Manhattan College and of the Columbia Law School; member of the
    Xavier Alumni Sodality, the N. Y. Catholic Club, and the Manhattan
    Alumni Society.

  =Phelan, Rev. J.=, Marcus, Ia.

  =Philbin, Eugene A.=, of the law firm Philbin, Beekman & Menken, 111
    Broadway, New York City.

  =Piggott, Michael=, 1634 Vermont Street, Quincy, Ill.; a veteran of
    the Civil War. He was made second lieutenant of Company F, Western
    Sharpshooters, in 1861, while at Camp Benton, St. Louis, Mo.; was
    promoted first lieutenant, and while at Fort Donaldson, in the
    spring of 1862, was made captain; lost a leg at Resaca, Ga. in May,
    1864; was subsequently connected with the U. S. Revenue Service;
    messenger in the National House of Representatives, Washington, D.
    C.; was made postmaster of Quincy, Ill., during President Grant’s
    first term, and held the position for over sixteen years; was
    appointed Special Indian Agent by President Harrison, and in that,
    as in every position held, displayed eminent ability.

  =Plunkett, Thomas=, 257 Sixth Street, East Liverpool, O.

  =Power, Rev. James W.=, 47 East 129th Street, New York City.

  =Powers, Patrick H.=, president of the Emerson Piano Co., 120 Boylston
    Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Prendergast, W. A.=, 20 Nassau Street, New York City.

  =Quinlan, Francis J.= (M. D.), 33 West 38th Street, New York City; was
    for a number of years surgeon in the U. S. Indian Service; recently
    president of the New York Celtic Medical Society.

  =Quinlan, Col. James=, 120 Liberty Street, New York City; a veteran of
    the Civil War; served in the Eighty-eighth New York Regiment (of
    Meagher’s Irish Brigade); member of the U. S. Medal of Honor Legion.

  =Quinn, John=, lawyer, 120 Broadway, New York City.

  =Quinn, W. Johnson=, manager of the Hotel Empire, New York City.

  =Regan, John H.=, lawyer, 422 35th Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Regan, W. P.=, architect, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Reilly, Robert J.=, Cedar Street. Bangor, Me.

  =Richardson, Stephen J.=, 1785 Madison Avenue, New York City;
    circulation manager New York _World_.

  =Rooney, John Jerome=, of Rooney & Spence, customs and insurance
    brokers, forwarding agents, 66, 68 and 70 Beaver Street, New York
    City.

  =Roosevelt, Hon. Theodore=, president of the United States, White
    House Washington, D. C.

  =Rorke, James=, 40 Barclay Street, New York City.

  =Ryan, Charles V.=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Ryan, Christopher S.=, Lexington, Mass.

  =Ryan, James T.=, 68 William Street, New York City.

  =Ryan, John J.=, 171 East 94th Street, New York City.

  =Ryan, Michael=, 377 Broadway. New York City.

  =Ryan, Michael J.=, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Ryan, Nicholas W.=, 1444 Boston Road, Borough of the Bronx, New York
    City.

  =Ryan, Most Rev. Patrick J.= (D. D.), Archbishop of Philadelphia, Pa.;
    the Cathedral, Philadelphia.

  =Ryan, Richard=, Rutland, Vt.

  =Ryan, Timothy M.= (M. D.), Torrington, Conn.

  =Ryan, Hon. William=, of Wm. Ryan & Co., grocers, Port Chester, N. Y.

  =Sanders, Col. C. C.=, Gainesville, Ga.; president of the State
    Banking Co. of Gainesville; alternate commissioner to World’s Fair,
    Chicago, Ill., 1893; vice-president for Georgia, American Bankers’
    Association. Colonel Sanders is of Irish and English ancestry. On
    the maternal side he is descended from Thomas and Theodosia M.
    Smyth, who emigrated from Ireland in 1793, landing in Charleston, S.
    C. They settled in Jones County, Ga. Thomas died Nov. 28, 1799. On
    the paternal side Colonel Sanders is a descendant of Rev. Moses
    Sanders, who emigrated from England, with two brothers, John and
    David, and arrived in Petersburg, Va., 1765. They embraced the
    Patriotic cause in the Revolution and were active in operations
    against the British. Colonel Sanders, the subject of this sketch,
    graduated from the Georgia Military Institute, in June, 1861;
    entered the Confederate service; was made lieutenant-colonel of the
    Twenty-fourth Regiment of Infantry, Georgia Volunteers, August,
    1861; served under General Lee in the Peninsular campaign, in the
    seven days’ battles around Richmond, Va., and was among the bravest
    of the brave; commanded his regiment at Malvern Hill and at Marye’s
    Heights, Fredericksburg, where the Twenty-fourth was a part of the
    Confederate forces that received the valorous charges of Meagher’s
    Irish Brigade. He also commanded the regiment at the battles of
    Chancellorsville and Antietam, at which latter conflict he was
    placed in command of Wofford’s Brigade. While in this position he
    met a bayonet charge from the Federals by a counter bayonet charge,
    and in the desperate fighting that ensued, fifty-eight per cent. of
    Sanders’ heroic force was swept away. Colonel Sanders also led the
    Twenty-fourth at Cedar Creek, Chickamauga, Knoxville, the
    Wilderness, Spottsylvania Court House, and Sailor’s Creek. On April
    6, 1865, Ewell’s Corps, to which Colonel Sanders’ regiment was then
    attached, was captured, and Colonel Sanders was sent as a prisoner
    of war to Washington, D. C. Writing of Meagher’s Irish Brigade,
    Colonel Sanders says: “I was in command of the Twenty-fourth Georgia
    Regiment, with other troops, at the foot of Marye’s Heights,
    receiving the five heroic and gallant charges of the Irish Brigade,
    whose prodigies of valor have filled the country with admiration. I
    saw the devoted Irish charge up to our breastworks, to be mowed down
    by a line of Confederate fire that no soldiers could withstand. I
    saw the Irish battalions cut down like grain before the reaper, yet
    the survivors would magnificently close up their ranks only to have
    huge gaps again cut through them. When forced back they rallied and
    came bravely on again, only to be riddled with bullets and torn by
    artillery. Their fifth charge was made with greatly decimated ranks
    that slowly recoiled like the waves of a tempestuous sea. When
    twilight descended upon the scene, a spectacle was presented
    unequaled in warfare. At least three fourths of my command was
    composed of men of Irish descent and knew that the gallant dead in
    our front were our kindred of the land beyond the sea. When, one by
    one, the stars came out that night, many tears were shed by Southern
    Confederate eyes for the heroic Federal Irish dead.” During the war
    Colonel Sanders was offered the rank of brigadier-general but
    declined the same.

  =Sasseen, Robert A.=, 50 Pine Street, New York City; insurance
    investments. (Life member of the Society.)

  =Scott, Joseph=, lawyer, Bradbury Building, Los Angeles, Cal.

  =Shahan, Very Rev. Thomas J.= (S. T. D., J. U. L.), professor of
    church history, Catholic University, Washington, D. C.; S. T. D.,
    Propaganda, Rome, 1882; J. U. L., Roman Seminary, 1889.

  =Shanahan, Very Rev. Edmund T.= (Ph. D., S. T. D., J. C. L.),
    professor of dogmatic theology, Catholic University, Washington, D.
    C.; A. B., Boston College, 1888; S. T. D., Propaganda, Rome, 1893;
    J. C. L., Roman Seminary, Rome, 1895; Ph. D., Roman Academy, 1895.
    Instructor in philosophy and dogmatic theology, American College,
    Rome, 1894–’95; lecturer in philosophy, University of Pennsylvania,
    1898–’99; associate professor of philosophy, The Catholic University
    of America, 1895–1901.

  =Shanley, John F.=, 17 Washington Street, Newark, N. J.

  =Shanley, Thomas J.=, 344 West 87th Street, New York City.

  =Shea, Daniel W.= (Ph. D.), professor of physics, Catholic University,
    Washington, D. C.; A. B., Harvard University, 1886; A. M., Harvard
    University, 1888; Ph. D., Berlin, 1892. Assistant in Physics,
    Harvard University, 1889 and 1892; assistant professor of physics in
    the University of Illinois, 1892–’93; professor of physics in the
    University of Illinois, 1893–’95.

  =Shea, John B.=, 19 Maiden Lane, New York City.

  =Sheedy, Bryan DeF.= (M. D.), 10 West 46th Street, New York City.

  =Sheran, Hugh F.=, 46 Woodbine Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Sheridan, Rev. John A.=, 97 South Street, Jamaica Plain (Boston),
    Mass.

  =Sherman, P. Tecumseh=, of the law firm Taft & Sherman, 15 William
    Street, New York City; member of the Union League Club and of the
    Military Order of the Loyal Legion; son of the late Gen. William T.
    Sherman.

  =Shuman, A.=, merchant clothier, 440 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Slattery, John J.=, president Todd-Donigan Iron Co., Louisville, Ky.

  =Sligo Social Club=, Roxbury (Boston), Mass. (M. J. Mulroy, secretary,
    24 Faxon Street, Roxbury.)

  =Sloane, Charles W.=, lawyer, 54 William Street, New York City.

  =Smith, Hon. Andrew C.= (M. D.), Dekum Building, Portland, Oregon;
    president of the State Board of Health; president of the Hibernia
    Savings Bank; member of the state senate from 1900 to 1904; has
    served on the staff of St. Vincent’s Hospital for fourteen years;
    has been president of the State and City Medical societies;
    represented Oregon for two years in the House of Delegates of the
    American Medical Association.

  =Smith, James=, 26 Broadway, New York City.

  =Smith, Rev. James J.=, 88 Central Street, Norwich, Conn.

  =Smith, Joseph=, secretary of the Police Commission, Lowell, Mass.

  =Smith, Dr. Thomas B.=, Wyman’s Exchange, Lowell, Mass.

  =Smith, Thomas F.=, clerk of the city court, 32 Chambers Street, New
    York City.

  =Smyth, Rev. Hugh P.=, rector of St. Joseph’s Church, Roxbury
    (Boston), Mass.

  =Smyth, Philip A.=, 11 Pine Street, New York City.

  =Smyth, Rev. Thomas=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Smyth, Rev. Thomas M.=, East Liverpool, O.

  =Somers, P. E.=, manufacturer, 17 Hermon Street, Worcester, Mass.
    (Life member of the Society.)

  =Spillane, J. B.=, managing editor _Music Trade Review_, Metropolitan
    Life Building, 1 Madison Avenue, New York City.

  =Stang, Rt. Rev. William= (D. D.), Fall River, Mass., bishop of the
    Roman Catholic diocese of Fall River.

  =Steele, Hon. John H.=, Phenix Building, Minneapolis, Minn.

  =Storen, William J.=, 232 Calhoun Street, Charleston, S. C.

  =Sullivan, James E.= (M. D.), Providence, R. I.; was graduated from
    Bellevue Hospital Medical College, New York, 1879; also studied
    medicine in Dublin, London and Paris; was city physician of Fall
    River, Mass., for seven years; married, in 1885, Alice, daughter of
    the late Joseph Banigan of Providence; retired from practice in
    1891; is a member of the Rhode Island, Massachusetts and Providence
    Medical societies; vice-president of the University Club,
    Providence; a director of the Rhode Island Hospital Trust Co.;
    president and treasurer of the Sullivan Investment Co., Providence.

  =Sullivan, James Mark=, lawyer, Exchange Building, New Haven, Conn.

  =Sullivan, John B.=, contractor, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Sullivan, John J.=, 61–63 Quincy Market, Boston, Mass.; of Doe,
    Sullivan & Co.

  =Sullivan, John J.=, lawyer, 203 Broadway, New York City.

  =Sullivan, Dr. M. B.=, Dover, N. H.; formerly a state senator.

  =Sullivan, M. F.= (M. D.), Oak Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Sullivan, Michael X.= (Ph. D.), instructor, Brown University,
    Providence, R. I.

  =Sullivan, Patrick F.=, of Sullivan Bros., 68 Pemberton Square,
    Boston, Mass.

  =Sullivan, Hon. Richard=, lawyer, Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.; an
    ex-senator of Massachusetts.

  =Sullivan, Roger G.=, cigar manufacturer, 803 Elm Street, Manchester,
    N. H.

  =Sullivan, Dr. T. P.=, 318 South Main Street, Fall River, Mass.

  =Sullivan, Timothy P.=, Concord, N. H.; furnished granite from his New
    Hampshire quarries for the new National Library Building,
    Washington, D. C.

  =Sullivan, William B.=, lawyer, Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Supple, Rev. James N.=, rector of St. Francis de Sales Church,
    Charlestown (Boston), Mass.

  =Sweeney, Rev. Timothy P.=, St. Patrick’s Church, Fall River, Mass.

  =Sweeny, William Montgomery=, 120 Franklin Street, Astoria, L. I., N.
    Y.

  =Swords, Joseph F.=, superintendent U. S. Reservation, Sulphur, Indian
    Territory. He is a descendant of Cornet George Swords, one of the A.
    D. 1649 officers in the service of Kings Charles I and Charles II in
    Ireland. Joseph F. Swords is a member of the Sons of the American
    Revolution. He is of the fourth American generation from Francis
    Dawson Swords, graduate of Trinity College, Dublin, 1750, who was
    exiled from Ireland, 1760, and who served in the Patriot Army
    throughout the War of the Revolution.

  =Tack, Theodore E.=, 52 Broadway, New York City.

  =Taggart, Hon. Thomas=, Grand Hotel, Indianapolis, Ind.

  =Teeling, Rt. Rev. Arthur J.=, rector of St. Mary’s Church, Lynn,
    Mass.

  =Thompson, Frank=, 1867 Seventh Avenue, New York City.

  =Thompson, Frank V.=, 116 Princeton Street, East Boston, Mass.

  =Thompson, James=, of James Thompson & Bro., Louisville, Ky.

  =Thompson, Robert Ellis= (Ph. D.), president, Central High School,
    Philadelphia, Pa.; recently a professor in the University of
    Pennsylvania.

  =Tierney, Dennis H.=, real estate and insurance, 167 Bank Street,
    Waterbury, Conn.

  =Tierney, Edward M.=, Hotel Marlborough, Broadway, New York City.

  =Tierney, Myles=, 317 Riverside Drive, New York City. (Life member of
    the Society.)

  =Toale, Patrick P.=, Toale P. O., Aiken County, S. C.

  =Toomey, A. J.=, F11 Produce Exchange, New York City.

  =Travers, Ambrose F.=, vice-president of the Travers Brothers Co.,
    cordage, etc., 41 Worth Street, New York City.

  =Travers, Vincent P.=, treasurer of the Travers Brothers Co., 41 Worth
    Street, New York City.

  =Vincent, John=, lawyer, 45 Cedar Street, New York City; was first
    assistant district attorney under the late Hon. John McKeon for two
    years, and on his death was appointed by the court as his successor
    _ad interim_.

  =Vredenburg, Watson, Jr.=, civil engineer, 32 Broadway, New York City.

  =Waldron, E. M.=, of E. M. Waldron & Co., building contractors, 84
    South Sixth Street, Newark, N. J.

  =Walker, William O’Brien=, 90 Wall Street, New York City, a descendant
    of the Revolutionary O’Briens of Machias, Me.

  =Wallace, Rev. T. H.=, Lewiston, Me.

  =Waller, Hon. Thomas M.=, ex-governor of Connecticut, New London,
    Conn.

  =Walsh, Frank=, secretary and credit manager, Wilkinson, Gaddis & Co.,
    wholesale grocers, 866–868 Broad Street, Newark, N. J.

  =Walsh, P. J.=, 503 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

  =Walsh, Philip C.=, 260 Washington Street, Newark, N. J.; of Walsh’s
    Sons & Co., dealers in irons and metals.

  =Walsh, Philip C., Jr.=, 260 Washington Street, Newark, N. J.

  =Walsh, Wm. P.=, 247 Water Street, Augusta, Me.

  =Ward, Edward=, of Ward Bros., contractors, Kennebunk, Me.

  =Ward, John T.=, Kennebunk, Me.

  =Ward, Michael J.=, Brookline, Mass.

  =Wilhere, Hon. M. F.=, 31st and Master Streets, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Wilson, Hon. Thomas= (LL. D.), general counsel for the Chicago, St.
    Paul, Minneapolis & Omaha Railway Co., St. Paul, Minn.; was chief
    justice of the Supreme Court of Minnesota, 1864–’69; member of the
    Minnesota House of Representatives, 1880; member of the Minnesota
    Senate, 1883; member of Congress, 1887–’89.

  =Woods, John J.=, 54 Federal Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Wright, Henry=, 584 East 148th Street, New York City; secretary,
    Building Trades Employers’ Association of the Bronx.

  =Zabriskie, George A.=, 123 Produce Exchange, New York City.




                               NECROLOGY.

                       (Continued from page 151).


  BYRNE, MAJ. JOHN, New York City. He was a native of Maryland and was
    born in 1845. Died in Mamaroneck, N. Y., Oct. 31, 1905. He was
    living in West Virginia with his father, a railroad contractor, when
    the war broke out. Although too young to enlist, he joined the Union
    army as a scout and served all through the contest. He settled in
    Cincinnati at the close of hostilities, and became a civil engineer.
    For over twenty years Major Byrne was identical with the railroad
    operations of the late C. P. Huntington. He was president of the
    Pittsburg, Shawmut and Northern Railroad Company, and of the Shawmut
    Mining Company. He was also a director of the Detroit City Gas
    Company and a trustee of the Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank of New
    York and was also connected with other corporations (see page 142).
    An ardent lover of the land of his fathers, Major Byrne took a very
    active part in the Land League movement. He was elected
    vice-president of the League at the great National Convention held
    at Philadelphia, and served out his term. With the late Eugene
    Kelly, he was one of the organizers of the Irish Parliamentary Fund
    in this city, and made a personal contribution to it of $15,000. He
    also paid the salary of an Irish member of parliament for several
    years himself.

  CURRAN, JAMES, president of the James Curran Manufacturing Company of
    New York City; a veteran of the Civil War. He died at his residence,
    230 West 99th Street, New York City, Oct. 27, 1905, aged 64 years.




                   PRESIDENTS-GENERAL OF THE SOCIETY.


   1897. Rear-Admiral George W. Meade, U. S. N. (retired), Philadelphia,
           Pa. Died May 4, 1897.

   1897. Hon. Edward A. Moseley, secretary of the Interstate Commerce
           Commission, Washington, D. C.; was elected president-general
           on death of Admiral Meade.

   1898. Hon. Edward A. Moseley, Washington, D. C.

   1899. Hon. Thomas J. Gargan, Boston, Mass.; a prominent lawyer of
           that city; ex-member of the Police Commission; member of the
           Boston Transit Commission.

   1900. Hon. Thomas J. Gargan, Boston, Mass.

   1901. Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York City; prominent capitalist;
           official in banks, trust companies and other corporations.

   1902. Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York City.

   1903. Hon. William McAdoo, New York City; assistant secretary of the
           U. S. Navy under President Cleveland; prominent lawyer;
           ex-member of Congress; police commissioner of the city of New
           York.

   1904. Hon. William McAdoo, New York City.

   1905. Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York City.




  GENERAL INFORMATION REGARDING THE AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.


The Society was organized on January 20, 1897, in Boston, Mass., and now
has members in twenty-seven states, the District of Columbia, two
territories and five foreign countries.

The first president-general was the late Rear-Admiral R. W. Meade, U. S.
N. (retired).

Briefly stated, the object of the organization is to make better known
the Irish chapter in American history.

There are two classes of members in the organization,—Life and Annual.
The life membership fee is $50, (paid once). The fee for annual members
is $5, paid yearly. In the case of new annual members, the initiation
fee, $5, also pays the membership dues for the first year.

The board of government comprises a president-general, a
vice-president-general, a secretary-general, a treasurer-general, a
librarian and archivist, and an executive council. There are also state
vice-presidents.

The Society has already issued several bound volumes and a number of
other publications. These have been distributed to the members and to
public libraries; also to historical organizations and to universities.
Each member of the Society is entitled, free of charge, to a copy of
every publication issued from the time of his admittance. These
publications are of great interest and value, and are more than an
equivalent for the membership fee.

The Society draws no lines of creed or politics. Being an American
organization in spirit and principle, it welcomes to its ranks Americans
of whatever race descent, and of whatever creed, who take an interest in
the objects for which the Society is organized. Membership application
blanks will be furnished on request.

The membership includes many people of prominence, and has been
addressed by many distinguished men. It occupies a position in the front
rank of American historical organizations.




         GOOD WORDS FOR VOL. IV OF THE JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY.


Volume IV of the Society’s Journal, covering the year 1904, was greeted
with sentiments of high commendation as the preceding volumes had been.
The following extracts are reproduced from a mass of acknowledgments,
received by Secretary T. H. Murray, relative to the fourth volume:

  From the Town Library, Peterborough, N. H.: “We have received the
  Journal of the American-Irish Society, for which please accept our
  thanks.”

  From Mr. James Connolly, Coronado, Cal.: “I am in receipt of Vol. IV
  of the Journal of our Society. Please accept my congratulations on
  its excellence.”

  From the Boston Athenæum: “The library committee gratefully
  acknowledge the gift of Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, Volume IV. Chas. K. Bolton, Librarian.”

  From Thomas Addis Emmet, M. D., LL. D., New York City: “I have
  received the fourth volume of the Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society, and am well pleased with it.”

  From the Library of the University of Colorado: “I beg to
  acknowledge with thanks the receipt of your Journal, Volume IV,
  1904. Gift to this library. Alfred E. Whitaker Librarian.”

  From the Carnegie Library, Pittsburg, Pa.: “On behalf of the board
  of trustees I take pleasure in acknowledging your gift to the
  Carnegie Library of Pittsburg. Anderson H. Hopkins, Librarian.”

  From the Public Library, Haverhill, Mass.: “The trustees acknowledge
  with thanks the gift of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, Volume IV, 1904. John G. Moulton, Librarian.”

  From Mr. Hugh McCaffrey, Philadelphia, Pa.: “I appreciate the fourth
  volume of the Journal of the Society, received lately, and which
  reflects great credit on you and the good work you have at heart.”

  From Mr. John Lavelle, Cleveland, O.: “The fourth volume of the
  Journal of our Society has just come to hand. It is an extremely
  creditable work, and is of permanent value. Congratulations!”

  From the Public Library, San Francisco, Cal.: “The trustees
  acknowledge with thanks the receipt of one copy of the ‘Journal of
  the American-Irish Historical Society,’ by Thomas Hamilton Murray.”

  From Mr. Edward J. Brandon, City Clerk, Cambridge, Mass.: “Permit me
  to tender my congratulations on Volume IV of the Journal. It seems
  to me that this is the best volume yet issued by the Society.”

  From the Library of the University of Oregon: “Please receive hearty
  thanks for Volume IV of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society. Yours very respectfully, Camilla Leach, Librarian.”

  From the University of Nebraska Library, Lincoln, Neb.: “The library
  board acknowledges with thanks the gift of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV. J. I. Wyer,
  Librarian.”

  From Capt. Edward O’Meagher Condon, Nashville, Tenn.: “Many thanks
  for Volume IV of the Journal of the Society. It is splendidly gotten
  up and is creditable to you and the organization in every way.”

  From the Brooklyn (N. Y.) Public Library: “We beg to acknowledge the
  receipt of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  Volume IV. With thanks for your courtesy, Frank P. Hill, Librarian.”

  From the New York State Library, Accession Department: “The library
  has received your Journal, Volume IV, 1904. The gift is gratefully
  acknowledged and will be duly credited. Melvil Dewey, Director.”

  From the Nashua (N. H.) Public Library: “The library has received
  the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, for
  which the trustees return a grateful acknowledgment. Harriet
  Crombie, Librarian.”

  From the Troy (N. Y.) Public Library: “Gentlemen: The Troy Public
  Library takes pleasure in acknowledging the receipt of Volume IV of
  the Journal of the Society. Yours very gratefully, Margaret Deming,
  Librarian.”

  From the Otis Library, Norwich, Conn.: “The Otis Library
  acknowledges with thanks the receipt of Journal, Volume IV, a gift
  to the library from the American-Irish Historical Society. Jonathan
  Trumbull, Librarian.”

  From Tufts College, Mass.: “The trustees of Tufts College have
  received from the American-Irish Historical Society the following
  gift to the library: The Journal, Volume IV, for which they return
  thanks. H. S. Mellen, Librarian.”

  From the Public Library, Portland, Me.: “The library has received
  your gift, Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume
  IV, which is hereby gratefully acknowledged for the trustees. Alice
  C. Furbish, Librarian.”

  From the Holyoke (Mass.) Public Library: “Dear Sir, Please accept
  the thanks of this Library for one copy of the ‘Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society,’ received today. Very truly
  yours, F. G. Willcox, Librarian.”

  From the Public Library, Denver, Col.: “The Public Library of the
  City of Denver acknowledges with thanks the receipt of Volume IV,
  Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society. Respectfully, C.
  R. Dudley, Librarian.”

  From the University of Pennsylvania: “The library committee of the
  University of Pennsylvania gratefully acknowledges the receipt of
  the gift noted on the margin: (Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society, Volume, IV, 1904.)”

  From the Library of Leland Stanford Junior University, California:
  “The library acknowledges with thanks the receipt of your gift of
  the Journal of American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV.
  Respectfully Yours, Melvin G. Dodge, Librarian.”

  From the University of Texas: “In behalf of the board of regents I
  hereby acknowledge with thanks the receipt of the following gift
  from you to the library: Journal, Volume IV. P. L. Windsor,
  Librarian. Austin, Texas, April 4, 1905.”

  From the Enoch Pratt Free Library, Baltimore, Md.: “The trustees
  acknowledge with thanks the gift of Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society, Volume IV, from the American-Irish Historical
  Society. Bernard C. Steiner, Librarian.”

  From the Library of the University of Chicago: “On behalf of the
  trustees I hereby acknowledge with thanks the receipt of Journal of
  the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, as a gift to the
  library. Zella Allen Dixson, Librarian.”

  From the Library of the University of Cincinnati: “This library begs
  to acknowledge, with thanks, the receipt of your gift of Volume IV
  of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society.
  Respectfully, Harriet Evans Hodge, Librarian.”

  From the Public Library, Hartford, Conn.: “The officers of the
  Hartford Public Library acknowledge with thanks the receipt of the
  Journal of American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, a gift from
  the Society. C. M. Hewins, Librarian.”

  From the Fletcher Free Library, Burlington, Vt.: “The trustees
  gratefully acknowledge the receipt of the American-Irish Historical
  Society Journal, with an analytical index, a gift from Thomas
  Hamilton Murray. Sarah C. Hagar, Librarian.”

  From Clark University Library, Worcester, Mass.: “Please accept the
  thanks of the University for your gift of Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, the receipt of which
  is hereby acknowledged. Louis N. Wilson. Librarian.”

  From the U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.: “I have the pleasure
  of acknowledging the receipt of the following gift to this library:
  The Journal of the American-Irish Society, Volume IV. Very
  respectfully, A. N. Brown, Professor, Librarian.”

  From the Public Library of Providence, R. I.: “The trustees of the
  Providence Public Library have received from the American-Irish
  Historical Society, the Journal, Volume IV, for which they return
  their thanks. William E. Foster, Librarian.”

  From the Public Library, Brookline, Mass.: “The trustees
  acknowledge, with thanks, the gift of Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society, Volume IV, from the Society. Leonard K. Storrs,
  Chairman of the Board. Louisa M. Hooper, Librarian.”

  From the Library Association of Portland, Oregon: “The directors
  acknowledge the receipt of Volume IV of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, by T. H. Murray, for which they
  return sincere thanks. Mary Frances Isom, Librarian.”

  From the Cornell University Library, Ithaca, N. Y.: “Dear Sir: I beg
  to acknowledge with best thanks the receipt of your gift to the
  library. Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume
  IV. Yours very truly, T. W. Harris, Librarian.”

  From Mr. Joseph Geoghegan, Salt Lake City, Utah: “I beg to
  acknowledge receipt of the fourth volume of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, and congratulate you on having
  maintained the high standard of the former volumes.”

  From the Public Library, Peoria, Ill.: “The directors of the Peoria
  Public Library acknowledge with thanks the receipt of your gift to
  the Library, Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  Volume IV. Respectfully, E. S. Willcox, Librarian.”

  From Mr. William Giblin, New York City: “I beg to acknowledge
  receipt of the fourth volume of the Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society. Pray accept my congratulations on the success of
  the work and my hearty thanks to you for sending it.”

  From the Library of Princeton University: “I am directed to convey
  to you the thanks of the trustees of Princeton University for your
  gift, which has been received and placed in the library. I have the
  honor to be yours very truly, E. C. Richardson, Librarian.”

  From Mr. James L. O’Neill, Elizabeth, N. J.: “Volume IV of the
  Journal of our Society has just come to hand. It is a splendid book
  and every member of the organization will undoubtedly be proud of
  it. The historical papers are of especial interest and value.”

  From the University of Minnesota: “The University of Minnesota has
  received the Journal, Volume IV, a gift to the library from the
  American-Irish Historical Society, for which a grateful
  acknowledgment is hereby returned. William W. Folwell, Librarian.”

  From the People’s Library, Newport, R. I.: “The People’s Library of
  Newport, Rhode Island, has received a copy of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, for which is returned
  a grateful acknowledgment. Jane E. Gardner, Librarian.”

  From Mr. Patrick F. Magrath, Binghamton, N. Y.: “I congratulate you
  on the excellence of the fourth volume of the Journal, just
  received. The book is fully equal in point of merit and workmanship
  to Vols. I, II and III. The entire series is a credit to our
  Society.”

  From the Essex Institute, Salem, Mass.: “The Essex Institute has the
  honor to acknowledge, with cordial thanks, the receipt of Journal of
  the American-Irish Historical Society, by Thomas H. Murray, Volume
  IV, as a gift to the library. Alice G. Waters, Librarian.”

  From the Columbia University Library in the City of New York: “The
  trustees acknowledge with thanks the receipt of Journal, Volume IV,
  from the American-Irish Historical Society, which has been placed to
  the credit of that institution. James H. Canfield. [Librarian.]”

  From the Elizabeth (N. J.) Public Library and Reading Room: “The
  board of trustees acknowledge with thanks your recent contribution
  of one copy of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  Volume IV, to the library. Respectfully, M. L. Prevost, Librarian.”

  From the Free Public Library of Newark, N. J.: “The trustees have
  received from you as a gift to the library Volume IV of the Journal
  of the American-Irish Historical Society, for which they return a
  grateful acknowledgment. Placed in the library. J. C. Dana,
  Librarian.”

  From the University of Vermont: “The faculty of the university
  acknowledge with thanks the gift of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, 1904, from the
  American-Irish Historical Society. M. H. Buckham, President. Edith
  E. Clarke, Librarian.”

  From the Public Library, Fitchburg, Mass.: “The trustees take
  pleasure in thanking you for your valued gift noted below, which
  will be carefully preserved and made useful to the public. G. E.
  Nutting, Librarian. (The Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, Volume IV.)”

  From the Library of the University of Georgia: “I beg to
  acknowledge, with thanks, your gift to this library of Journal of
  the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, 1904. I would like
  very much to have a complete set of your journals on our shelves. D.
  Burnet, Librarian.”

  From the Duluth (Minn.) Public Library: “The directors gratefully
  acknowledge the receipt of Volume IV of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, a gift to the library. Would it
  be possible for us to secure the three other volumes? Lydia M.
  Poirier, Librarian.”

  From the Wilmington Institute Free Library, Wilmington, Del.: “The
  Board of Managers acknowledge with thanks the receipt of your gift
  to this library of the publication noted below. Very respectfully,
  C. L. Bailey, Librarian. (Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, 1904.)”

  From the City Library, Springfield, Mass.: “The City Library
  gratefully acknowledges the receipt of the article—noted below—which
  you have kindly given to it. Yours very truly, Hiller C. Wellman,
  Librarian. (Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume
  IV, 1904.)”

  From the Oswego (N. Y.) City Library: “The trustees of the Oswego
  City Library desire to thank Mr. T. H. Murray, secretary, for the
  Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, which has been
  received and placed in the library. Yours respectfully, Robert S.
  Kelsey, Librarian.”

  From the General Library, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor: “I take
  pleasure in acknowledging, with thanks, the receipt of Journal of
  the American-Irish Historical Society, Vol. IV, 1904, which you have
  been so kind as to present to this library. Very truly yours, R. C.
  Davis, Librarian.”

  From the St. Paul (Minn.) Public Library: “The board of directors of
  the St. Paul Public Library have received your gift, consisting of
  Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, for
  which I am instructed to return their grateful acknowledgment. Helen
  J. McCaine, Librarian.”

  From the Public Library, Detroit, Mich.: “The library has received
  from you the American-Irish Historical Society Journal, Volume IV, a
  gift to the library, for which, on behalf of the board of
  commissioners, I beg to return grateful acknowledgment and thanks.
  Henry M. Utley, Librarian.”

  From Johns Hopkins University: “The Johns Hopkins University has
  received from the American-Irish Historical Society a copy of the
  ‘Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,’ by Thomas
  Hamilton Murray, Volume IV, and gratefully acknowledges this
  contribution to its library.”

  From the Cooper Union, New York City: “The trustees have received
  one copy of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, a
  gift to the institution from the American-Irish Historical Society,
  for which they return their grateful acknowledgement. L. C. L.
  Jordan, Assistant Secretary.”

  From the Public Library, Minneapolis, Minn.: “The library board of
  the City of Minneapolis has received your gift, consisting of
  Journal, Volume IV, of the American-Irish Historical Society, for
  which I am instructed to return a grateful acknowledgment. Very
  respectfully, G. A. Countryman, Librarian.”

  From the Redwood Library, Newport, R. I.: “The directors of the
  Redwood Library take pleasure in acknowledging the receipt of
  Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV,
  presented by you to the library, for which they return their sincere
  thanks. Richard Bliss, Librarian.”

  From the Library of Dartmouth College: “Dear Sir: I have the honor
  to acknowledge the receipt of Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society, Volume IV, 1904, and am instructed to tender to
  you the thanks of the trustees of this college for the same. Very
  respectfully, M. D. Bisbee, Librarian.”

  From Harvard University: “The President and Fellows have received
  the Journal of the American Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, a
  gift to the library of the university from the Society, for which
  they return a grateful acknowledgment. William C. Lane, Librarian.
  Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 21, 1905.”

  From the Newburgh (N. Y.) Board of Education: “The board of
  education of the City of Newburgh acknowledge with thanks the
  receipt of the following gift from you to the Newburgh Free Library:
  The Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Vol. IV, 1904.
  Thomas M. Hawthorne, Librarian.”

  From the Steele Memorial Library, Elmira, N. Y.: “We are in receipt
  of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV.
  We will be pleased to have this volume in our library, and allow me
  to thank you for the courtesy of the gift. Yours very truly, (Mrs.)
  Kate Deane Andrew, Librarian.”

  From the Newton (Mass.) Free Library: “The trustees of the Newton
  Free Library have received a copy of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, a gift to the library
  from Mr. T. H. Murray, Secretary, for which they return a grateful
  acknowledgment. Elizabeth P. Thurston, Librarian.”

  From the Boston Public Library: “Sir: I am directed to return to you
  the thanks of the City of Boston for your courteous gift, noted
  below, which has been received, accepted and placed in the Public
  Library. Very respectfully, Horace G. Wadlin, Librarian. (Journal of
  the American-Irish Historical Society, Vol. IV.)”

  From the Utica (N. Y.) Public Library: “The trustees acknowledge
  with thanks the gift of the American-Irish Historical Society
  Journal, Volume IV, from Mr. Thomas H. Murray. The same has been
  officially entered in the records of the library. Nicholas E.
  Devereux, President. C. M. Underhill, Librarian.”

  From the Manchester (N. H.) City Library: “The trustees have
  received Volume IV of the Journal of the American Irish Historical
  Society, a gift to the library from the Society, for which they
  return a grateful acknowledgment. Eugene E. Reed, Mayor, and
  ex-officio President of the Board. F. Mabel Winchell, Librarian.”

  From the American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass: “The
  American Antiquarian Society has received your donation of the
  Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, for
  which I have the honor, on behalf of the council, to return a
  grateful acknowledgment. Edmund M. Barton, Librarian.”

  From the Rutland (Vt.) Free Library Association: “It is my pleasant
  privilege to extend to you the thanks of the Rutland Free Library
  Association for the gift to the library of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society. Your kindness is truly
  appreciated. Very sincerely, Alice N. Coolidge (Mrs. O. H.),
  Secretary.”

  From the Buffalo (N. Y.) Public Library: “The board of directors of
  the Buffalo Public Library thank you for your gift of a copy of the
  publication named below, which will be carefully preserved and made
  useful to the public. H. L. Elmendorf, Superintendent. (Journal of
  the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV.)”

  From the Free Public Library, New Bedford, Mass.: “I am directed by
  the trustees to return you their thanks for your donation of the
  Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, 1904,
  which has been placed in our library, and will be duly acknowledged
  in our next annual report. William L. Sayer, Secretary.”

  From the Los Angeles (Cal.) Public Library: “The Los Angeles Public
  Library presents its acknowledgments and thanks to the
  American-Irish Historical Society for the gift of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, by Thomas Hamilton Murray, Volume
  IV. By order of the board of directors. Mary L. Jones, Librarian.”

  From the Free Library of Philadelphia, Pa.: “The board of trustees
  have received from you as a gift to the library one bound volume:
  Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, for which they
  return their grateful acknowledgments. F. G. Rosengarten, president
  of board of trustees. Placed in the library. John Thomson,
  Librarian.”

  From the Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence, R. I.: “Sir: I
  have the honor to return to you the thanks of the Historical Society
  for your courteous gift, noted below, which has been received and
  placed in the library. Very respectfully, Clarence S. Brigham,
  Librarian. (Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society for
  1904.)”

  From Brown University: “The Corporation of Brown University, in
  Providence, Rhode Island, have received Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Vol. IV, 1904, a gift to the
  University library from the Society, for which the corporation
  return a grateful acknowledgment on the part of the University. H.
  L. Koopman, Librarian.”

  From Mr. Patrick P. Toale, Toale, Aiken County, S. C.: “I beg to
  acknowledge the receipt of the fourth volume of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, and thank you very much for the
  same. I wish you and yours well and hope to see yearly a widening of
  the society and your efforts in a field that is so rich in
  historical treasures.”

  From the Library of the U. S. Military Academy, West Point: “Sir: I
  have the honor to acknowledge, with many thanks, the receipt of the
  following-named publication presented to this Library: Journal of
  the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, 1904. Very
  respectfully, your obedient servant, Edward S. Holden, Librarian.”

  From the Library of the University of California, Berkeley,
  California: “Permit me to express the thanks of the University for
  your gift of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  Volume IV, 1904. We should be most grateful if you could complete
  our set by giving us Volume I. Very respectfully yours, Joseph C.
  Rowell, Librarian.”

  From the Library of Congress: “Washington, D. C., 28 February, 1905.
  I beg to acknowledge, with thanks, the receipt of the gift to this
  library of ‘Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, by
  Thomas Hamilton Murray, Volume IV.’ Very respectfully, Herbert
  Putnam, Librarian of Congress. By E. L. Burchard, Chief of Order
  Division.”

  From the Public Library, Taunton, Mass.: “The trustees have received
  the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, a
  gift to the library from Thomas Hamilton Murray, Secretary, for
  which they return a grateful acknowledgment. John H. Eldridge,
  President of the Board. Placed in the library, Joshua E. Crane,
  Librarian.”

  From the Free Public Library, Worcester, Mass. “The directors have
  received from you, as a gift to the library, the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, by Thomas H. Murray, Volume IV,
  for which they return their grateful acknowledgments. Alfred S.
  Perkins, President of the Board. Placed in the library, Samuel S.
  Green, Librarian.”

  From the Free Public Library, Lynn, Mass.: “The trustees have
  received the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, by
  Thomas Hamilton Murray, Secretary-General, a gift to the library
  from the Society, for which they return a grateful acknowledgment.
  John N. Berry, President of the Board. Placed in the library,
  Harriet L. Matthews, Librarian.”

  From the Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston: “The Society has
  received a copy of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, Volume IV, Boston, 1904, a gift to the library from the
  American-Irish Historical Society, which is hereby gratefully
  acknowledged. C. F. Adams, President. Placed in the library, Samuel
  A. Green, Librarian.”

  From the Lithgow Library, Augusta, Me.: “The Lithgow Library and
  Reading Room has received the Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society, 1904, a gift to the library from Thomas Hamilton
  Murray, for which it returns grateful acknowledgment. Leslie C.
  Cornish, President. Placed in the library April, 1905. Julia M.
  Clapp, Librarian.”

  From the Riggs Memorial Library, Georgetown University: “On behalf
  of the university I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your courteous
  gift,—Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume
  IV,—for which I am directed to return cordial thanks. Yours with
  much esteem, Henry J. Shandelle, S. J., Librarian. Washington, D.
  C., Feb. 21, 1905.”

  From the Public Library, Quincy, Mass.: “The Thomas Crane Public
  Library of the City of Quincy has received from the American-Irish
  Historical Society, as a gift to the library, the book mentioned in
  the following schedule for which the board of trustees return their
  sincere thanks. H. A. Keith, secretary. (The Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society.)”

  From Hon. P. T. Barry, Chicago, Ill.: “I thank you very much for the
  fourth volume of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, which came duly to hand. I thank you, too, for having
  printed therein the little paper read by me before the Illinois
  State Historical Society, as I deem it quite an honor to have it
  printed in the volume with the able papers therein.”

  From Bowdoin College: “The president and trustees of Bowdoin College
  have received the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  Volume IV, a gift to the library from the Society by Mr. T. H.
  Murray, secretary, for which they return a grateful acknowledgment.
  Wm. DeW. Hyde, president. Placed in the library April 3, 1905.
  George S. Little, Librarian.”

  From the Peabody Institute, Peabody, Mass.: “The government have
  received the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  Volume IV, a gift to the library from Thomas Hamilton Murray, Esq.,
  for which they return a grateful acknowledgment. Thomas Carroll,
  Chairman of Lyceum and Library Committee, Placed in the library.
  Lyman P. Osborn, Librarian.”

  From the Public Library, Bangor, Me.: “The managers have received
  the publication named on the other side (Volume IV, Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society), a gift to the library from the
  American-Irish Historical Society, for which they return a grateful
  acknowledgment. F. O. Beal, President of the Board. Placed in the
  library, Mary H. Curran, Librarian.”

  From the College of the City of New York: “I have the honor to
  acknowledge the receipt of the following book: Journal of the
  Irish-American Historical Society, Vol. IV, which you were kind
  enough to present to the library of the College of the City of New
  York. Please accept our sincere thanks. Yours respectfully, Henry
  Evelyn Bliss, Deputy Librarian.”

  From the New York Historical Society: “The New York Historical
  Society has received The Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, by Thomas Hamilton Murray, Secretary-General, Volume IV,
  8vo, Boston, 1904, a gift from the American-Irish Historical
  Society, for which I am instructed to return a grateful
  acknowledgment. Robert H. Kelby, Librarian.”

  From the Free Public Library, Jersey City, N. J.: “I am directed to
  convey to you the thanks of the trustees of the Free Public Library
  for your gift of Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  Vol. IV. The same will be duly placed to your credit upon our
  records, carefully preserved and made useful to the public. I have
  the honor to be E. E. Burdick, Librarian.”

  From the New Hampshire State Library, Concord: “Dear Sir: In behalf
  of the trustees I beg to acknowledge the receipt of the following
  volume sent this library through your kindness: Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, 1904. It will be their
  pleasure to give the book a fitting place upon the shelves. Yours
  very truly, Arthur H. Chase, State Librarian.”

  From Mr. John J. Slattery, Louisville, Ky.: “I have received Volume
  IV of the Journal of the Society, which you kindly sent me, and
  delayed acknowledging its receipt until I had read it. Need I say
  what pleasure it afforded me? The series are all good, but this is
  one of the best. Because these publications furnish proof of facts
  stated—from the records—they are invaluable to many, to whom such
  knowledge is otherwise inaccessible.”

  From the Public Library of Toledo, Ohio: “I beg to acknowledge with
  thanks the receipt of Volume IV of the Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society. I would very much like to secure Volumes I, II
  and III, in order to have a complete file. Please advise me if this
  is possible. I hope, also, that our library may receive subsequent
  volumes. Thanking you for your kindness, I am yours very truly,
  Willis F. Sewall, Librarian.”

  From the University of Maine: “By authority and on behalf of the
  trustees of the University of Maine I desire to acknowledge with
  thanks the receipt of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society, Volume IV, which has been added to this library through
  your courtesy. If available for distribution, we should be glad to
  receive the earlier volumes of the Journal and others of your
  Society’s publications. Yours truly, Ralph K. Jones, Librarian.”

  From the Reynolds Library, Rochester, N. Y.: “The trustees of the
  Reynolds Library acknowledge with thanks the receipt of your gift
  (Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, 1904).
  We should be very glad if you could find it possible to place the
  name of our library on your regular mailing list, and also present
  us your first three volumes if you have copies to spare. I think a
  set would be appreciated here. Very respectfully, Alfred S. Collins,
  Librarian.”

  From the Public Library of Milwaukee, Wis.: “We are greatly indebted
  to you for Volume IV of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society received this morning. It would be advantageous to our
  Irish-American citizens who are patrons of this library to have the
  complete set and to be able to consult the volumes as they come out.
  If you can send us the first three volumes and place us on your
  mailing list, we shall be under renewed obligations to you. Very
  truly yours, George W. Peckham, Librarian.”

  From Mr. Dennis H. Tierney, Waterbury, Conn.: “I wish to
  congratulate you in the production of Volume IV, Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society for 1904. And in reading your
  paper entitled “Some Voices From Ye Olden Time,” I saw in it great
  research and pains taken on your part which I, as state president of
  the Society, feel prompted to commend, and on the part of the
  members of the state of Connecticut, I thank you for your very
  efficient work which I regard as a milestone, as it were, to guide
  the present and future historian.”

  From the Librarian of Trinity College, Washington, D. C.: “It is a
  pleasure to thank you for the copy of The Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume IV, which you courteously
  sent to our library. I have examined the whole volume with a glow of
  pride and interest and feel sure the same sentiments will be
  awakened in our young people as they read. It is a valuable addition
  to our library. Should the Society publish monographs,
  bibliographies, or any thing relating to the Irish element in
  America, we shall be glad to be informed.”




                             GENERAL INDEX.


 Annual Meeting and Dinner, 8.


 Executive Council of the Society, 5, 6.


 General Information Regarding the Society, 188.


 Historical Papers, 16.


 Introductory Note, 3.


 Letters from Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, 12, 128, 133.

 Lexington, Mass., Patriotic Pilgrimage to, 13.

 List of Presidents-General of the Society, 187.


 Membership Roll, 152.


 Necrology, 147, 186.


 Officers of the Society, 5, 6, 7.


 Patriotic Pilgrimage to Lexington, Mass., 13.

 Proceedings of the Society, 8.


 Review of the Year, 135.

 Roosevelt, Hon. Theodore, Letters from, 12, 128, 133.


 State Vice-Presidents of the Society, 6, 7.




                           ANALYTICAL INDEX.


 “A better American, a more capable, a more useful, or more fearless
    citizen than John Sullivan, New Hampshire never had,” 68.

 “About a tenth part of the whole state,” 123.

 “A brave and fine-looking Irishman,” 93.

 “A bright, quick-witted Irishman,” 35, 40.

 A British gunboat is destroyed at Elizabeth, N. J., 25, 26.

 “A British officer of equal rank,” 103.

 Accident at a military review near Trenton, N. J., 98.

 Acting Governor of Maine, Edward Kavanagh, 107.

 Adams, John, the second president of the United States, 66, 68.

 “A descendant of James Butler, the immigrant,” 113.

 A detail told off to keep the fires along the American front burning,
    120.

 “A fast friend to the liberties of America, and studied to promote the
    public weal,” 107.

 “A Forgotten Heroine,” 16.

 “A friend and staff officer of General Washington,” 143.

 “A gallant young Irish patriot” killed at Princeton, 27.

 “A granite monument stands on Boston Common,” 110.

 “A great parade this day with the Irish, it being St. Patrick’s,” 107.

 “A handsome, good-natured looking Irishman,” 94.

 “A handsome little Irishman, always neatly dressed,” 117.

 “A Kerry Irishman,” 104.

 Albany, N. Y., British garrison at, 94.

 Alexander, Sarah W., a native of Newry, Ireland, 122.

 Allen, Ethan, 122.

 “A man of excellent manners and good acquirements,” 111.

 “America by a desperate effort has nearly emancipated herself from
    slavery,” 125.

 _American Catholic Historical Researches_, Griffin’s, 104, 110.

 American camp at Cambridge, Mass., 111.

 American forces at New York, The, 56, 111.

 American minister to the French Court, 125.

 _American Museum, The_, published by Mathew Carey, 129.

 Amherst College, 44.

 Amory, Thomas, emigrates from Limerick, Ireland, 94.

 Amory, Thomas Coffin, 63, 76, 94.

 A most historic corps, 120.

 A native of Newry, Ireland, Commodore O. H. Perry’s mother, 122.

 Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company (Boston), 151.

 Andrew, Governor, of Massachusetts, 136.

 Andriessen, Jan, “the Irishman,” 113.

 “And some returned to Ireland,” 119.

 Angell, Col. Israel, of the Second Rhode Island regiment in the
    Continental Line, 107.

 Anglican dean of Derry, George Berkeley, 119.

 “An ingenious and useful citizen,” 97.

 An Irish clergyman locates at Derby, Conn., 119.

 “An Irish gentleman much respected,” Henry Paget, 91.

 An Irishman, Robert Beers, slain by the Indians, 93.

 “An Irishman transplanted to America, where he has already made a
    fortune,” Marquis de Chastellux mentions, 118.

 An Irish pioneer of Boston, Mass., 28.

 “An Irish servant-man,” John Hamilton, 115.

 “An Irish Teague and foreigner,” 119.

 An Irish trader at Fort Pitt, 98.

 _Annals of Multifernan_, 29.

 _Annals of Witchcraft in New England_, 17.

 “A noble gentleman,” 94,

 “An officer of the Irish army,” 70.

 Annual Meeting and Dinner of the Society, 8.

 Antietam, Battle of, 181.

 A party of refugees from the West Indies, 119.

 Apprehension of Mathew Carey requested, 126.

 “A Quakeress of Flushing,” 104.

 A Rhode Islander becomes an Irish baron, 103.

 Armagh, Ireland, 96, 97.

 Artillery companies organized in New Jersey, 23.

 “A schoolmate of the wife of General Washington,” 123.

 A sortie of marines at midnight, 66.

 Assault on Quebec, 117.

 Assembly of Virginia, 102.

 “A thriving Irish settlement,” 83.

 A tract of 2,000 acres granted to David Mooney, 117.

 A tract of 18,000 acres is granted Michael Byrne and others, 117.

 A tract in New York of some 4,000,000 acres, 123.

 A tradition concerning George Berkeley, 119, 120.

 Attack on Savannah, 120.

 “At that period there were many Irish in Salem,” Mass., 91.

 At “the ring of the town,” 93.

 Attucks, Crispus, 110.

 Austin’s _Genealogical Dictionary of Rhode Island_, 92.

 _Ave Maria_, The, 16.

 “A victim to British cruelty,” 119.

 “A victim to the Terror,” 120.

 “A wealthy Irishman of Charleston, S. C.,” 96.

 “A young Irish weaver,” 106.


 Baird, Henry Carey, Paper by, 124.

 Baltimore, Lord, 105.

 Bandon, Ireland, 101.

 Bank of Pennsylvania, 131.

 Bank of the United States, 108, 131.

 Baron Bernard O’Neill, 103.

 Baron Kinsale, 103.

 Barrett’s _Old Merchants of New York_, 121.

 Battle at Sudbury, Mass., 97.

 Battle of Antietam, 181.

 Battle of Bemis’ Heights, 120.

 Battle of Bennington, 122.

 Battle of Black Rock, 61, 62.

 Battle of Brandywine, 67, 105, 111, 118.

 Battle of Bull Run, Second, 144.

 Battle of Bunker Hill, 31, 48, 66, 109, 111.

 Battle of Cedar Creek, 181.

 Battle of Chancellorsville, 181.

 Battle of Chickamauga, 181.

 Battle of Clontarf, 137.

 Battle of Fredericksburg, 39, 138, 181, 182.

 Battle of Germantown, 67, 105, 111, 118.

 Battle of Gettysburg, 144, 155, 164.

 Battle of Lexington, Concord and Cambridge, 13.

 Battle of Long Island, 106, 111, 112.

 Battle of Malvern Hill, 181.

 Battle of Monmouth, 27, 113, 116, 123, 142.

 Battle of Peach Orchard, 155.

 Battle of Princeton, 27, 105, 111, 113.

 Battle of Rhode Island, 42, 89.

 Battle of Saratoga, 122.

 Battle of Spottsylvania Court House, 181.

 Battle of Stillwater, 120.

 Battle of Trenton, 27, 105, 111, 120.

 Battle of White Plains, 111, 112.

 Battle on Lake Erie, 122.

 “Became captain of a troop of Light Horse,” 111.

 Beers, Robert, an Irishman slain by the Indians, 93.

 Bellingham, Richard, governor of Massachusetts, 116.

 Bemis’ Heights, Battle of, 120.

 Bennington, Battle of, 122.

 Berkeley, George, “the Kilkenny scholar,” 119, 120.

 Birthplace of the children of Master John Sullivan, 63, 64, 65, 74, 75.

 Black, Alexander, an early Irish resident of Providence, R. I., 107.

 Black, James, of Providence, R. I., 107.

 Black Rock, Battle of, 61, 62.

 Blaine, Col. Ephraim, 101.

 Blaine, James, “came from Ireland with his family prior to 1745,” 101.

 Blaine, James G., of Maine, 101.

 Blair, James and Robert, natives of Ireland, members of the
    Commander-in-Chief’s Guard in the Revolution, 92, 93.

 _Bonhomme Richard_, The, 94.

 “Born at sea of Irish parents,” 98.

 Boston Common, A granite monument on, 110.

 Boston Massacre, The, 110.

 Boston, Mass., An Irish pioneer of, 28.

 Boston, Mass., Charitable Irish Society of, 93, 106, 114, 141, 150.

 Boston, Mass., Goody Glover executed in, 21.

 Boston records, Extracts from the, 110, 111, 121, 122.

 Boston, Siege of, 41, 111.

 Boston University, 150.

 Bourk, James, “captain of the brig _Neptune_,” 89.

 Bradford’s Coffee House, New York, 57.

 Bradt’s Rangers in the Revolution, 90.

 Brandywine, Battle of, 67, 105, 111, 118.

 _Brave Little Holland and What She Taught Us_, Griffis’, 102.

 Bridget Dexter signs a petition of Charlestown and Malden women, 30.

 British are defeated in battle on Lake Erie, 122.

 British attack on New London, Conn., 90.

 British at Yorktown, Surrender of the, 109.

 British evacuate New York, 56.

 British garrison at Albany, N. Y., 94.

 British ship _Glasgow_, Engagement with the, 105.

 Browne, Margery, 69, 72, 75, 78, 79.

 Brown University, 93, 108.

 Brunswick, Me., Thomas Crowell an Irish schoolmaster in, 105.

 Bryan, Alexander, “from Armagh in Ireland,” 96.

 Buchanan, James, father of President Buchanan, 92.

 Buchanan, President, 92.

 Bull Run, Second battle of, 144.

 Bunker Hill, Battle of, 31, 48, 66, 109, 111.

 Bunker Hill Monument Association, 153.

 Bunker Hill to Yorktown, 47.

 Bunker’s _Long Island Genealogies_, 104.

 Burke, Patrick, “Orderly to the General,” 95.

 Burke, Richard, an early settler of Sudbury, Mass., 92.

 Burke, Capt. William, of the armed schooner _Warren_, 103.

 Butler, Deacon John, 113.

 Butler, James, came from Ireland, and is heard from in Lancaster,
    Mass., 1635, 113.

 Butler, John and Thomas, early settlers of Waterford, Conn., 115, 116.

 Butler, Richard, a patriot of the Revolution, 120.

 Byrn, Daniel, lieutenant in a Rhode Island regiment, 89.

 Byrne, Michael, and others are granted a tract of 18,000 acres, 117.

 “By whom he was introduced to Dr. Franklin,” 125.


 Caldwell, Andrew, a patriot of the Revolution, 100.

 Caldwell, James, a patriot of the Revolution, 118.

 Calef, Robert, expresses Sympathy for Goody Glover, 17.

 _Calendar of Colonial State Papers_, 116.

 Calhoun, James, grandfather of John C. Calhoun, 100.

 Calhoun, John C., 100.

 “Calhoun settlement,” The, 100.

 “California, a land of health where almost endless summer reigned,” 84.

 California, An Irish pioneer of, 82.

 Cambridge, Mass., Hon. Augustine J. Daly, mayor of, 13.

 Cambridge, Mass., The American camp at, 111.

 Campaign against Canada, 122.

 Captain Commandant O’Neill, 102.

 “Captain of the Isles,” Roger Kelly, 33.

 “Captain of the Quaker Blues,” 92.

 Capture of Ticonderoga, 122.

 Capture of Yorktown, 92, 120.

 Cape’s Tavern, New York, 57.

 “Captured twelve British soldiers,” 118.

 Carey, Henry Charles, 134.

 Carey, Mathew, Memoir of, 124.

 Carleton, Sir Guy, 56.

 Carroll, Bishop John, 110.

 Carrick-on-Suir, Ireland, 168.

 Carroll, Charles, of Carrollton, 105.

 Carrolls, The, of Maryland, 105.

 Casey, Thomas, an early settler at Newport, R. I., 94.

 Castle Jordan, in Meath, 29.

 “Catholics, Baptists and Quakers,” 18.

 “Caused the book to be burned in Harvard College yard,” 17.

 Cavan, Ireland, 156.

 Cavenaugh, Patrick, saves General Lincoln from being captured by the
    British, 96.

 Cedar Creek, Battle of, 181.

 Cedars, The affair at the, 91.

 Celtic Medical Society (New York City), 152.

 Chancellorsville, Battle of, 181.

 Charitable Irish Society, Boston, Mass., 93, 106, 114, 141, 150.

 Chastellux, Marquis de, 118.

 Chautauqua County, N. Y., 59, 60, 61, 62.

 Cherokee Indian frontier, 100.

 Chesapeake and Delaware canal, 133.

 Chevalier Armand O’Connor, 91.

 Chevalier de Chastellux, 109.

 Cincinnati, Society of the, 115.

 Clare, Ireland, 97.

 Clark, Gen. George Rogers, 93.

 Clary Reunion Family, 155.

 Clay, Henry, 133.

 Clay’s Compromise Tariff Act, 133.

 Cleveland, President, 137, 138, 148.

 Clogston family of New Hampshire, 109.

 Clontarf, Battle of, 137.

 Clotworthy, Sir John, License issued to, 116.

 Cloyne, Ireland, 29, 31, 119.

 Coeymans patent, The, 106.

 “Col. Hercules Mooney’s regiment,” 38, 42, 46.

 Colles, Christopher, 110.

 Collins, Hon. Patrick A., 147, 148.

 Collins, William, arrives at New Haven with a party of refugees from
    the West Indies, 119.

 Colonial Wars, Society of, 153.

 “Color sergeant of the Irish flag of the regiment,” 155.

 Commander-in-Chief’s Guard, The, 92, 100, 104, 113.

 Commodore Perry’s mother a native of Newry, Ireland, 122.

 Conference at Dobb’s Ferry, 56.

 Confined on board a British prison ship, 103.

 Conley, John, a Connecticut soldier of the Revolution, 90.

 Connaught, Ireland, 28, 29, 35.

 Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, Ninth, 154.

 Conner, Philip, of Maryland, 97, 98.

 Connolly, Michael, captain and paymaster, during the Revolution, of a
    New York regiment, 98.

 Constable & Co., 123.

 Constable, William, 121, 123.

 Constitutional Convention of New Jersey, First, 98.

 “Contained elegant rooms suitable for the reception of persons of the
    first condition,” 106.

 Continental Army, The American, 44, 45, 47, 67, 110, 118, 123.

 Continental Congress, 67, 68, 102, 106, 123.

 Continental Dragoons, Col. George Baylor’s, 100.

 “Convenient and Fitt to be one of the fyre masters for ye Citty,” 113.

 Copley, John Singleton, the eminent artist, 97.

 Copley, Mary (Singleton), 97.

 Copley, Richard, 97.

 Cork, Ireland, 29, 31, 49, 75, 76, 78, 95, 103, 114, 122, 138, 149.

 Cornwallis, Surrender of, 145.

 Corps of Sappers and Miners, 89.

 Cotton Mather, who “countenanced the executioners by his presence, and
    in various ways urged the terrible work of blood in Salem,” 18.

 “Could not find the island of Bermuda,” 119.

 Council of the Society, 5, 6.

 Count Arthur Dillon, 120.

 Courtney, Ruth, 103.

 Craig, Sarah (mentioned in President Roosevelt’s letter), 12.

 Crane’s regiment of artillery in the Revolution, 94, 95.

 Crehore, Teague, stated to have been stolen from his parents in Ireland
    when a child, 112.

 Crimmins, Hon. John D., Paper by, 53.

 Crispus Attucks, 110.

 Croghan, George, 117.

 Cromwellian and Williamite regimes, 29.

 Cronin, Ensign Patrick, 98.

 “Crossed the Delaware with Washington,” 120.

 Cross of St. Louis, The, 109.

 Cross, Lieut. William, 117.

 Crowell, Thomas, an Irish schoolmaster in Brunswick, Me., 105.

 Crowley, Lieut. Florence, Tribute to by Gen. Henry Knox, 93.

 Crown Point, 35, 47, 102.

 Cullen’s _Story of the Irish in Boston_, 92, 116.


 Daly, Hon. Augustine J., mayor of Cambridge, Mass., 13.

 Dame Nourse of Salem, 19.

 Danaher’s _Early Irish in Old Albany, N. Y._, 90, 113, 143.

 Danes at Clontarf, The, 137.

 Dartmouth College, 42, 139.

 Decatur, Stephen, marries a woman of Irish lineage, 94.

 Declaration of Independence, 23, 27, 45, 98, 115, 146.

 DeCourcy, Jordan, 28.

 DeCourcy, Thomas, a native of Newport, R. I., 103.

 “Dedham Plain,” Rendezvoused on, 91.

 Definition of Witches, Leonard Scot’s, 16.

 “De Iersman van Dublingh,” 113.

 Delany, Sharp, a patriot of the Revolution, 115.

 Delaware, John Haslett locates in, 112.

 Denniston, Hugh, “a true Irishman,” of Albany, N. Y., 114.

 Destruction of a British gunboat by the patriots, 25, 26.

 Dexter, Bridget, 28.

 Dexter Family in Ireland, The, 28, 29.

 Dexter, George, 28.

 Dexter, John, “born in 1639 and probably in Ireland,” 28.

 Dexter-Mac Jordans, The, 28, 29.

 Dexter, Richard, one of Boston’s Irish pioneers, 28.

 Dexter, Stephen, “of the Parish of Templemurry, County Limerick,” 29.

 Dexter, Thomas, “of Cloyne, Cork,” 29, 31.

 Dexter, William, “likewise of Templemurry,” 29.

 “Died of wounds received at Bunker Hill,” 109.

 Dijon, Harold, Paper by, 16.

 Dillon, Count Arthur, 120.

 Dillon, Regiment of, 89, 101, 102, 120.

 _Discoverie of Witchcraft_, 16.

 Dobb’s Ferry, Conference at, 56.

 _Documents Relating to the Colonial History of the State of New York_,
    121.

 Donegal, Ireland, 92, 97, 100, 102.

 Dongan, Gov. Thomas, of New York, 53, 94, 104.

 Dongan, Thomas, John and Walter, 104.

 Donnaldson, John, “son of Hugh Donnaldson of Dungannon, Ireland,” 105.

 Donnelly, Terence, town schoolmaster of Newport, R. I., 89.

 Donovan, Capt. John, of the Rhode Island merchantman _Abby_, 91.

 Donovan, Maj. Matthew, of the Ninth Virginia regiment in the
    Revolution, 91.

 Dorrance, Rev. Samuel, an Irish clergyman, pastor of a church in
    Voluntown, Conn., 112.

 Dover, N. H., Extracts from the records of, 71.

 Dowling, Dick, the Confederate hero of Sabine Pass, 140.

 Down, Ireland, 159.

 “Doyle was voted 1,860 pounds of tobacco,” 102.

 Doyle, Thomas, a Virginia trooper, 102.

 Drake, Gen. Madison, Paper by, 23.

 Drogheda, Ireland, 94.

 Dromore, Ireland, 76.

 Dublin, Ireland, 89, 98, 99, 105, 108, 120, 123, 124, 126, 127, 136,
    139, 148.

 Duke of Orleans, 123.

 Dungannon, Ireland, 105.

 Dunkerron, Ireland, 76.

 Dunlap, John, a patriot of the Revolution, 111.

 Dunmanway, Ireland, 49.

 Dutchess County, N. Y., 59.


 Earl of Limerick, 104.

 Earl of Ulster, John De Courcy, 28.

 Early Irish schoolmasters in New Hampshire, 34, 35.

 East Greenwich, R. I., Charles McCarthy, a founder of, 114.

 _Ecclesiastical History of New England_, Felt’s, 119.

 Elizabeth, N. J., _Evening Times_, 23.

 Engagement with the British ship _Glasgow_, 104.

 “Enlisted under Sullivan’s call,” 47.

 Enniscorthy, Ireland, 88.

 Enniskellen, Ireland, 123.

 Execution of Robert Emmet, 48.

 Executions of reputed witches and wizards in New England, 21.

 Expedition against Savannah, 102.

 Expedition against the Six Nations, 67.


 Fanning, Dominick, of Limerick, exempted from pardon by Ireton, is
    beheaded, 107.

 Fanning, Edmund, a victim of the Cromwellian confiscation, settles in
    Groton, Conn., 107.

 Felt’s _Ecclesiastical History of New England_, 119.

 Fermanagh, Ireland, 89, 123.

 First child of Irish parentage born in Woburn, Mass., 113.

 First City Troop, of Philadelphia, 98, 100, 105, 109, 111, 114, 118.

 Fitzgerald, Lord Edward, 48.

 Fitzgerald, Miss Marcella A., 82.

 “Fitzgeralds, O’Neills and O’Briens,” The, 12.

 Fitzgerald, Thomas, a midshipman during the Revolution, 90.

 Fitzsimons, Christopher, of Charleston, S. C., 96.

 Flynn, John, a Connecticut soldier of the Revolution, 90.

 Fort Griswold, The massacre of, 119.

 “Fort Herkimer in the Mohawk valley, N. Y.,” 100.

 Fort William and Mary, Seizure of the powder at, 66, 67.

 France, The Irish brigade in the service of, 120.

 Franklin, Dr., 125, 128.

 Fredericksburg, Battle of, 39, 138, 181, 182.

 French and Indian War, 111.

 Friendly Brothers of St. Patrick, 55, 56.

 Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, New York, 57, 58, 121, 147, 151, 157.

 Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, of Philadelphia, 110, 123.

 “From Bandon in Ireland,” 101.

 “From Strabane, Ireland,” 104.

 From “Yrland in de Kings county,” 113.

 Fullerton, George, “a native of Ireland,” 98.

 Fyne, Jan, “van Waterfort in Irlandt,” 109.


 Gaine, Hugh, 131.

 Galway, Ireland, 32.

 Gates, General, 118.

 “Gave good dinner parties, and had choice old wines upon the table,”
    121.

 _Genealogical Dictionary_, Savage’s, 30.

 General Assembly of Rhode Island, 89, 104, 114.

 “General Knox, commanding the American artillery,” 24.

 _Generals of the Continental Line in the Revolutionary War_, 103.

 Germantown, Battle of, 67, 105, 111, 118.

 Gettysburg, Battle of, 144, 155, 164.

 Girard, Stephen, 130, 131.

 Glover, Goody, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22.

 Goodwin Children, Goody Glover is charged with afflicting the, 17, 18,
    19, 20, 21, 22.

 _Goody Glover, an Irish Victim of the Witch Craze, Boston, Mass.,
    1688_, 16.

 Greaton’s regiment, 97.

 Greene, General, 67, 96, 116.

 Greene, Rudolphus, an Irish school teacher in New Hampshire, 101.


 Haggerty, Hugh, of the Commander-in-Chief’s Guard, 113.

 Hamilton, John, “an Irish servant-man,” 115.

 Hand, Gen. Edward, 93.

 Harrison, Hannah, 106.

 Harrison, President William Henry, 106.

 Hartford, Conn., William Collins teaches school at, 119.

 Haslett, John, a soldier of the Revolution, 112.

 “Having been banished out of Ireland was reported as strongly affected
    to popery,” 101.

 Henry, Patrick, 49.

 “Her one cat was there, fearsome to see,” 21.

 Hessians are surprised at Trenton, 120.

 “He was an honor to the country that gave him birth,” 107.

 “He was in the public service of Maryland for nearly 40 years,” 108.

 Hibernia Fire Company of Philadelphia, 110.

 Hibernian Society of Philadelphia, The, 98, 110, 123, 130.

 “His daughter, Anne, married one of the Hamptons,” 96.

 _History of King Philip’s War_, Bodge’s, 102, 103.

 Hogan, William, an early settler of Albany, N. Y., 113.

 Hotten’s _Original Lists_, 104, 105.

 House of Commons, Irish, 126, 127.

 Hutchinson, Anne, banished from Boston, 119.


 “I made application in a letter written in seven languages,” 75.

 “In De Burgo’s time,” 29.

 Indians, Treaty proceedings with the, 106.

 “Inherited the military spirit of his ancestors and transmitted it to
    his posterity,” 38.

 “In 1661 he bought of the Indians the last twenty acres they owned on
    Milford Neck,” 96.

 Ireland, “And some returned to,” 119.

 Ireland, Commodore Perry’s mother a native of, 122.

 Ireland, First funds for Rhode Island College were obtained in, 93.

 Ireland, John Ring of the kingdom of, 100.

 Ireland, Ten ships from, arrive at Boston in 1736 and 1738, bringing
    nearly 1,000 passengers, 93.

 Ireland, The ship _Sally_ arrives at Boston from, 90.

 Irish Academy, Royal, 154.

 Irish ancestors of President Roosevelt, 12.

 Irish ancestry, People of, 102.

 Irish brigade in the service of France, 120.

 Irish brigade, Meagher’s, 136, 138, 139, 144, 181, 182.

 Irish Catholic Benevolent Union, 138.

 Irish Catholics stood, Oppressions under which the, 125.

 Irish Dexters, The, 28, 29.

 Irish “do flock into town,” 112.

 Irish-French regiment of Dillon, 89, 101, 102, 120.

 Irish-French regiment of Walsh, 91, 109.

 Irish Grove. Settlement known as, 83.

 Irish House of Commons, 126, 127.

 Irish immigrants, Five ships arrive in Boston harbor, 1718, with, 92.

 Irish in Boston, Cullen’s work on the, 92, 116.

 Irish Independence, Movement for, 48.

 Irish in Salem, Mass., Early, 91.

 Irish in the Third New York regiment of the Line, 117.

 Irish kingdom of Connaught, 29.

 Irishmen in this country, One of the earliest, 112.

 Irish names found in Connecticut at early periods, 117, 118.

 Irish nation, St. Patrick patron of the, 57.

 Irish Pioneer of California, An, 82.

 Irish pioneers, Richard Dexter, one of Boston’s, 28.

 Irish principality of Meath, 29.

 Irish Roman Catholic, Gov. Thomas Dongan, an, 53.

 Irish schoolmasters in New Hampshire, 34, 35.

 Irish sent to Jamaica, 116, 117.

 Irish settlement, A thriving, 83.

 Irish soldiers in King Philip’s War, 97, 102, 103.

 Irish trader at Fort Pitt, An, 98.

 Irish transported to America, 116, 117.

 “Irish who were conveyed to Virginia, Barbadoes and other parts,” 104.

 Irish victim of the witch craze, An, 16.

 Irvine, Gen. William, of the Revolution, 123, 145.

 Isidore de Lynch, “an intrepid Irishman,” 109.

 “It is scituate on mistik syde nere the south springe,” 30.


 Jamestown, N. Y., James Prendergast founder of, 61.

 Jamestown, N. Y., The James Prendergast Free Library at, 61.

 Jamestown, Va., Francis Maguire arrives at, 112.

 Jan Andriessen, “the Irishman,” 113.

 Jefferson, Thomas, 68, 109, 122.

 Johnson, Sir William, 39, 117.

 Jones, John Paul, 94, 95, 96, 105.

 Jones, Teague, a resident of Yarmouth, Mass., as early as 1645, 113,
    114.

 Jones, Thomas, “from Strabane, Ireland,” 104.

 Jordan Teutonicus, 28.


 Kaine, Patrick, an American marine who served under Esek Hopkins, 104.

 Kaley, Hon. Timothy, 49, 50.

 Kavanagh, Edward, acting governor of Maine, 107.

 Kavanagh, James, came to Boston during the Revolution, 107.

 “Keen as an Irish greyhound,” 117.

 Keiley, Hon. Anthony M., 137, 138.

 “Kelly and Burke and Shea,” 34, 50, 51, 52.

 Kellyburg, Kellyvale, and Kelly Grant, 44.

 Kelly, Capt. Warren Michael, “great-great-grandson of Darby Kelly,” 39.

 Kelly, Col. Moses, 45

 Kelly, Darby, an early New Hampshire settler, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40.

 Kelly Hill, New Hampton, N. H., 37.

 “Kelly, Huntoon and Bowdoin,” 37.

 Kelly, James, one of the grantees of Holderness, N. H., 43.

 Kelly, John, of New York, is granted nearly 100,000 acres in Vermont,
    44.

 Kelly, John, “one of the selectmen of Salem,” N. H., in 1775, 44.

 Kelly, John, “who came to Newbury, Mass., in 1635,” 32, 41, 42.

 Kelly, Joshua, one of the proprietors of Conway, N. H., 46.

 Kelly, Maj.-Gen. Benjamin F., “great-grandson of Darby Kelly,” 38.

 Kelly, Maj. Nathaniel, “grandson of Darby Kelly,” 38.

 Kelly, “Old Master,” 122.

 Kelly, Richard, “a grantee and one of the first settlers of Contoocook,
    now Boscawen,” N. H., 41.

 Kelly, Roger, of the Isles of Shoals, 32, 33, 34, 42.

 Kelly, Samuel, “planned and built the first meeting-house in town,” 37.

 Kelly’s Falls, 45.

 Kelly, William, of “the alarm list of the town of Warner,” N. H., in
    1777, 42.

 Kerry, Ireland, 76, 104, 141.

 Kildare, Ireland, 101.

 Kilkenny, Ireland, 59, 98, 119, 120, 136.

 “Kilkenny scholar,” The, 119, 120.

 Killoween, Ireland, 76.

 King Philip’s War, 97, 102, 103, 114.

 Kinsale, Ireland, 157.

 Kinsmen of Governor Dongan, 104.

 Knox marches his men in from Harlem as far as “Bowery Lane,” 56.


 Lady Penelope O’Connor, 29.

 Lafayette, Marquis de, 123, 125, 127, 128, 133.

 Lake Chautauqua, N. Y., 59.

 Lake Erie, British are defeated on, 122.

 “Larchmont,” Reception to the Society by George W. Taylor at, 14.

 _Le Jason_ of the fleet of Count De Ternay, 91.

 Leonard, Patrick, a soldier of the Revolution, 111.

 _Les Combattants Francais De La Guerre Americaine_, 92, 97, 101.

 Lexington, Concord and Cambridge, Battle of, 13.

 Lexington, Mass., Official letter from Chairman George W. Taylor of the
    Selectmen of, 15.

 Limerick, Ireland, 29, 31, 70, 75, 77, 107.

 _Life of Commodore Perry_, Mackenzie’s, 122.

 Lightfoot, Susannah, a native of Ireland, 103.

 Long Island, Battle of, 106, 111, 112.

 _Long Island Genealogies_, Bunker’s, 104.

 Lord Edward Fitzgerald, 48.

 Lords of Athleathan, 29.

 Lyon, Matthew, “the Hampden of Congress,” 122.

 Lyons, Rev. Mr., an Irish clergyman, locates at Derby, Conn., 119.


 McCartee, Thomas, of Hartford, Conn., 89.

 McCarthy, Charles, a founder of East Greenwich, R. I., 114.

 McCarthy, Capt. Charles, 76.

 McCarthy, Capt. Owen, 76.

 McCarthy, Col. Florence, 76.

 McCarthy, Dermod, of Killoween, 76.

 McCarthy, Joan, 76.

 McCarthy, Reagh, 76.

 McCarthy, Thomas, of the Commander-in-Chief’s Guard, 100.

 McCarty, David, a member of the Committee of Safety, Albany, N. Y.,
    106.

 Macarty de Marteigue, 95.

 McCormick, Daniel, of New York city, 121, 123.

 McFinnen, The title of, 76.

 McGinnis, John, a New York soldier of the Revolution, 90.

 Mac Jordan-Dexters, The, 28.

 McKean, Hon. Thomas, 98.

 McLaughlin, Patrick, a soldier of the Revolution, taken prisoner by the
    British, 97.

 McMullen, Patrick, a marine during the Revolution, serving under John
    Paul Jones, 105.

 McNee, William, an early settler of Peterborough, N. H., 109.

 McSweeney, Capt. Edmund, 76.

 McSweeney, Col. Owen, 76.

 Macomb, Alexander, 121, 123.

 Maguire, Constant, “of County Fermanagh,” Ireland, 89.

 Maguire, Francis, arrives at Jamestown, Va., with Capt. Christopher
    Newport, 112.

 Mahoney, Honora, of Dromore, 76.

 Maine, Edward Kavanagh, acting governor of, 107.

 Mallins, Mary, “from Bandon in Ireland,” 101.

 Malvern Hill, Battle of, 181.

 Marquis de Chastellux, 118.

 Marquis de Lafayette, 125, 127, 128.

 Marye’s Heights, 144, 155, 181, 182.

 Maryland, The Carrolls of, 105.

 Mason and Dixon’s line, 38.

 Massachusetts cities, Mayors inaugurated in 1905 in, 135.

 Massachusetts General Court, 33, 68.

 Massachusetts Historical Society, 17, 68.

 Massacre at Fort William Henry, 36.

 Massacre of Fort Griswold, The, 119.

 _Master John Sullivan of Somersworth and Berwick, And His Family_, 63.

 “Masters Knox and Crocker, natives of Ireland,” 96.

 Mather, Cotton, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22.

 Mather, Increase, 17.

 Matthias Alexis de Roche Fermoy, 103.

 _Mayflower_, The, 102.

 Mayo, Ireland, 28, 29.

 Mayor Daly of Cambridge, Mass., 13.

 Meade, Andrew, “a Kerry Irishman,” 104.

 Meade, Col. Richard Kidder, 104.

 Meagher’s Irish brigade, 136, 138, 139, 144, 181, 182.

 Mease, John, a patriot of the Revolution, 120.

 Mease, Matthew, a patriot of the Revolution, 94.

 Meath, Ireland, 29.

 Membership roll of the Society, 152.

 _Memoirs of an American Lady_, 94, 108.

 Mexican War, 135, 136.

 Merchants’ Coffee House, New York, 58.

 Mohawk valley, N. Y., 100.

 Molly Pitcher, “a young Irishwoman,” at the Battle of Monmouth, 116.

 Monmouth, Battle of, 27, 113, 116, 123, 142.

 Mooney, David, Land patent granted to, 117.

 Mooney, Hercules, 35, 38, 42, 46, 72.

 Morgan’s Rifle Corps, 120.

 _More Wonders of the Invisible World_, Calef’s, 17.

 Morris, Robert, 127.

 Montgomery, General, 117, 144.

 Mount Vernon, 127.

 Moylan, Jasper, 114.

 Moylan, John, 114.

 Moylan, Stephen, 108, 114.

 Munster, Ireland, 29.

 Murphy, Brian, a soldier in King Philip’s War, 103.

 Murphy, Martin, Sr., an Irish pioneer of California, 82.


 Nantucket, Mass., Extract from the records of, 89.

 Narragansett campaign (1675), 91.

 Narragansett Indians, 113.

 Necrology, 147, 186.

 Neal, Jeremiah, a soldier in the Narragansett campaign, 91.

 Neale, Samuel, of Dublin, 101.

 Neill, Capt. Daniel, an artillery officer of the Revolution, 23.

 Neill, Owen, sustains losses by the British attack on New London,
    Conn., 90.

 New Hampshire, Darby Kelly, an early settler in, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39,
    40.

 New Hampshire, Early Irish schoolmasters in, 34, 35.

 New Hampshire Historical Society, 70, 81, 150.

 New Hampshire, Patriotism of, in the Revolution, 41.

 New Hampshire, Tenth regiment of, in the Civil War, 38.

 New Hampshire, The Clogston family of, 109.

 New Hampshire Veteran Association, 150.

 New London, Conn., British attack on, 90.

 New Jersey, First Constitutional Convention of, 98.

 New Jersey _Journal and Political Intelligencer_, 24.

 New Jersey, Provincial Congress of, 23, 24.

 Newport, Captain Christopher, 112.

 Newport, R. I., George Berkeley’s arrival at, 119, 120.

 Newport, R. I., Mason’s _Reminiscences of_, 100.

 Newport, R. I., Terence Donnelly, a schoolmaster of, 89.

 New York _Gazette_, 54, 55, 56.

 New York _Genealogical and Biographical Record_, 28.

 _New York in the Revolution_, 98, 99, 100, 117.

 New York regiment of levies, Colonel Malcom’s, 98.

 New York State Assembly, 61, 62.

 New York State Library, 142.

 New York, The British evacuate, 56.

 Ninth Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, 154.

 “No family in the state has the equal of this illustrious record,” 68.

 Nourse, Rebecca, 19, 22.


 O’Brien, John M., a Rhode Island soldier of the Revolution, 100.

 O’Brien, Michael Morgan, 109.

 O’Connor, Armand, of the Irish-French regiment of Walsh, 91.

 O’Connor, Lady Penelope, 29.

 O’Donnell, Rev. James H., 112, 115, 117, 118.

 O’Dougherty, Bryant, in Salem, Mass., in 1683, 91.

 O’Driscoll, Jacques, an officer in the Irish-French regiment of Walsh,
    93.

 Officers of the Society, 5, 6, 7.

 O’Gorman, Charles, an officer of the Irish-French regiment of Walsh,
    97.

 O’Killia, David, “the Irishman,” of old Yarmouth, Mass., 96.

 Old Elm, The (in Cambridge, Mass.), 13.

 “Old Master” Kelly, an Irish school teacher in Rhode Island, 122.

 _Old Merchants of New York_, Barrett’s, 121.

 Old North Church, Boston, 16, 18.

 _Old Orchard Mirror_, 106.

 Old Orchard, Me., Patrick Googins, a young Irish weaver, settles at,
    106.

 Olney, Col. Jeremiah, of Rhode Island, 92.

 O’Mahony, Abbe Bartholomew, chaplain of the French warship _L’Ivelly_
    during the American Revolution, 97.

 O’Neill, Bernard, of the Irish-French regiment of Dillon, 102.

 O’Neil, Thomas, saves the life of Franklin Pierce, 135, 136.

 “One of a party of forty-eight settlers,” 114.

 One of the earliest Burkes to settle in America, 92.

 “One of the earliest Irishmen in this country of whom we have record,”
    112.

 “On scouting duty in Penacook,” N. H., 42.

 “Orderly to the General,” Patrick Burke, 95.

 Oregon trail, The, 85.

 Original members of the Charitable Irish Society, 114.

 Orleans, Duke of, 123.

 Ormsby, John, an Irish trader at Fort Pitt, 98.

 O’Sullivan, Daniel, lord of Dunkerron, 76.

 O’Sullivan, Madam, 77.

 O’Sullivan, Major Philip, 70, 77.

 Otsego patent, 100,000 acres, is granted to George Croghan and others,
    117.


 Paget, Henry, “an Irish gentleman much respected,” 91.

 Patton, John, a native of Ireland, colonel of the Sixteenth
    Pennsylvania regiment in the Revolution, 110.

 Peisley, Mary, a native of Kildare, 101.

 Pennsylvania, Bank of, 131.

 Pennsylvania Line, Eighth regiment of the, 96.

 Pennsylvania Line, Second brigade of the, 123.

 Pennsylvania, Senate of, 131.

 Pennsylvania, University of, 108.

 Perry, Christopher R., of Rhode Island, 122.

 Philip, the Indian king, 97, 102, 103.

 Pierce, Franklin, is saved by Thomas O’Neil, 135, 136.

 Pitcher, Molly, at the battle of Monmouth, 116, 142.

 Platte Purchase, The, 83.

 Prendergast, Col. Henry A., 62.

 Prendergast, Col. William, 61.

 Prendergast, James, founder of Jamestown, N. Y., 61.

 Prendergast, Martin, associate judge of Niagara County, N. Y., 61.

 Prendergast, Matthew, participated in the battle of Black Rock, 62.

 Prendergast, Miss Helen, Paper by, 59.

 Prendergast, Thomas and Mary, 59.

 Prendergast, Thomas, John and Stephen, early settlers of Barnstead, N.
    H., 42.

 President Buchanan, 92.

 President Cleveland, 137, 138, 148.

 President Jefferson, 109, 122.

 President Roosevelt, 136, 137, 139, 140, 141, 144.

 President William Henry Harrison, 106.

 Princeton, Battle of, 27, 105, 111, 113.

 Proctor’s regiment of artillery, 27, 111.

 Prophesied that “Goody Glover would be hung,” 18.

 Providence, R. I., George Taylor prominent in, 107.

 Provincial Congress of New Jersey, 23, 24.

 Provincial Congress of Massachusetts, 31.

 Putnam, Gen. Israel, 31.


 Quaker Blues, The, 92.

 Quakers come from Ireland, 101.

 Quakers persecuted in Boston, 101.

 Quirk, Thomas, “a brave and fine looking Irishman,” 93.


 _Rambles Around Portsmouth_, Brewster’s, 44.

 Rancho de Las Animas, 86.

 Rancho San Francisco de las Llagas, 86.

 Reade, Michael, of Dover, N. H., 74, 75.

 Reception to the Society at Cambridge city hall, 13.

 Reception to the Society at the Lexington town hall, 13.

 _Redemptioners and Indentured Servants in the Colony and Commonwealth
    of Pennsylvania_, 115.

 Regiment of Dillon, 89, 101, 102, 120.

 Regiment of Walsh, 91, 93, 94, 97.

 _Reminiscences of New Hampton_, N. H., 35, 36, 37, 40.

 _Reminiscences of Newport, R. I._, Mason’s, 100.

 Review of the Year, 135.

 Rhode Island, Battle of, 42, 89.

 Rhode Island campaign, The, 67.

 Rhode Island College, 93, 108.

 Rhode Island Continental Line, Edward Fitzgerald, a soldier of the, 99.

 Rhode Island, General Assembly of, 89, 104, 114.

 Rhode Island, George Berkeley’s arrival in, 119, 120.

 Rhode Island, “Old Master” Kelly, an Irish school teacher in, 122.

 _Richard Dexter, One of Boston’s Irish Pioneers_, 28.

 Ring, John, “of the Kingdom of Ireland,” 100.

 “Roger Kelly, the ancient magistrate and taverner,” 32.

 Rogers, Hester, Patrick Googins marries, 106.

 Roosevelt, President, 136, 137, 139, 140, 141, 144.

 “Rough Riders,” The, 143.

 Rutledge, Edward, 146.


 “Sadly perplexed and befooled Cotton Mather,” 18.

 Salem, “The terrible work of blood in,” 18.

 San Juan Bautista, Mission of, 86, 87.

 San Ysidro ranch, 86.

 Sappers and Miners, Corps of, 89.

 Saratoga, Battle of, 122.

 Savage’s _Genealogical Dictionary_, 30.

 Savannah, Attack on, 120.

 Scales, John, of Dover, N. H., Paper by, 63.

 Schuyler, Cortlandt, marries a handsome Irish woman, 108.

 “Scored to death and did not give up his religion, which same I will
    hold to,” 17.

 “Seized the truncheon of the king’s officer,” 33.

 Selectmen of “the towne of Yarmouth returne the name of Teague Jones
    for not coming to meeting,” 114.

 “She and her husband were sold to the Barbadoes in the time of
    Cromwell,” 17.

 “She died a lunatic, frightened to death,” 18.

 Sheldon’s Continental Light Dragoons, 90.

 “She took up her residence on the island of Rhode Island,” 119.

 Shute, Governor, 30.

 Siege of Boston, 41, 111.

 Siege of Limerick, The, 70.

 Siege of Yorktown, 89, 120.

 Six Nations, Expedition against the, 67.

 Sligo, Ireland, 147.

 “So shall wee be bound to pray as we desire dayly to doe for yr prsptie
    & peace temporall & Eternall,” 30.

 Spain, War with, 136, 143, 160.

 Stamp Act Congress, 100.

 Stark, General, 45, 46.

 State Council of Censors, 123.

 State Vice-Presidents of the Society, 6, 7.

 St. Clair, General, 111, 120.

 St. Mary’s churchyard, Philadelphia, 134.

 St. Patrick’s Day, Some Early Celebrations of, 53.

 Stiles’ _History and Genealogies of Ancient Windsor, Conn._, 90.

 Stillwater, Battle of, 120.

 Storming of Stony Point, 106, 120.

 Stony Hill tract, 18,000 acres, is granted to Michael Byrne and others,
    117.

 Strabane, Ireland, 104.

 Stuart, Christopher, “an Irishman and soldier of the Revolution,” 106.

 Stuyvesant, Peter, 121, 123.

 Sullivan, Benjamin, a son of Master John Sullivan, 65.

 Sullivan, Capt. Ebenezer, a soldier of the Revolution, 69.

 Sullivan, Daniel, a patriot of the Revolution, 65, 66.

 Sullivan, Hon. George, attorney-general of New Hampshire, 68.

 Sullivan, Gov. James, of Massachusetts, 63, 68, 69, 93, 157.

 Sullivan, Gen. John, 34, 41, 45, 46, 47, 49, 66, 67, 68, 75, 93, 157.

 Sullivan, Master John, Statement concerning himself, 75, 76.

 Sullivan, Mary, fifth child of Master John and Margery (Browne)
    Sullivan, 69.

 “Subscribed, in 1780, £10,000 in aid of the Patriot army,” 109.

 “Surprised a British picket, took 36 prisoners, 60 muskets, and two
    pairs of colors,” 112.

 Surrender of Yorktown, 109.

 Sutter, J. A., “that grand old pioneer,” 85.


 “Taught school there for over twenty years,” 105.

 Taylor, George, an Irish signer of the Declaration of Independence,
    115.

 Taylor, George W., chairman of the Lexington board of Selectmen, 13,
    14, 15.

 Taylor, John M., “keen as an Irish greyhound,” 117.

 Templemurry, Ireland, 29.

 Temple, Robert, arrives at Boston in 1717 with a party of Irish
    Protestants, 106.

 Tenth New Hampshire regiment in the Civil War, 39.

 “That glorious band of brothers,” 126.

 Thayer, Capt. Simeon, of Providence, R. I., 117.

 “The affair at the Cedars,” 91.

 _The First Commencement of Rhode Island College_, 93.

 “The gentlemen of Ireland,” 54.

 “The Irish do flock into town,” 112.

 “The golden milestone of life,” 83.

 “The last Commander of old Kent,” 98.

 “The last of the cocked hats,” 120.

 “The magistrates, long annoyed by the presence of an obstinate Papist
    in Boston, ordered Goody Glover to be taken into custody,” 19.

 The magistrates visit Goody Glover in prison, 20.

 “The man of truth,” 106.

 “The patriots secretly moved in another direction to fall upon the
    British at Princeton,” 120.

 “The petition of Many Inhabitants of Malden and Charlestown on
    Mestickside,” 30.

 “The Proof Against Her Was Wholly Deficient,” 17.

 “The Sullivan family is one of the most notable families in the history
    of New England,” 65.

 “The western province of Ireland,” 35.

 “There was a great concourse of people to see if the Papist would
    relent,” 20, 21.

 “There were many Irish in the command,” 98.

 “They chained the Papist till she could not move,” 19.

 “They put other chains on Glover,” 19.

 “The three polite Irishmen,” 114.

 “They were men of energy and substance,” 32.

 “They were thrifty, prosperous and leading citizens in the towns in
    which they settled,” 34.

 “Thomas the Irishman,” 121.

 “Thursday, March 1, 1770, went to Malachi Murfee’s,” 108.

 Ticonderoga, 44, 46, 99, 122.

 Tipperary, Ireland, 138.

 “To seize the personal effects of traitors,” 115.

 “To transport to America 500 natural Irishmen,” 116.

 Tracy, Patrick, a Rhode Island soldier who was killed in the assault on
    Quebec, 117.

 “Traveling in wagons and on horseback,” 60.

 Trenton, Battle of, 27, 105, 111, 120.

 Trinity College, Dublin, 105.

 Tuchin, Symon, master of the _Due Return_, 101.


 Ulster, Ireland, 28.

 United States, Supreme Court of the, 98.

 University of Pennsylvania, 108.


 Valley Forge, 113.

 Virginia, Francis Maguire arrives in, 112.

 Virginia, General Assembly of, 108.

 Virginia Historical Society, 143.

 Virginia Light Dragoons, First regiment of, 96.

 Virginia officers in the Revolution, 115.

 Virginia, “Poll list for the election of burgesses for the County of
    Prince William,” 112.

 Virginia records, Symon Tuchin mentioned in the, 101.


 Walsh, Regiment of, 91, 93, 94, 97.

 Washington, General, 13, 56, 67, 102, 104, 113, 116, 118, 120, 123,
    127, 133, 143.

 Waterford, Ireland, 48.

 “Went in defense of the nation against Orange,” 76.

 Wreath placed on the monument in Lexington by the Society, 13, 14, 15.

 “Wrote an account of his voyage to Virginia and submitted it to the
    Privy Council of Spain,” 112.


 Yorktown, Surrender of, 109.

 “Your letter by Thomas the Irishman has just been received,” 121.

-----

Footnote 1:

  Died Sept. 19, 1905.

Footnote 2:

  Died March 18, 1905.

Footnote 3:

  Of Baltimore, Md. This paper is reproduced, by permission, from the
  _Ave Maria_, of Notre Dame, Ind., in which publication it recently
  appeared under the title “A Forgotten Heroine.”

Footnote 4:

  That there be no interruption to this narrative, let it be said that
  the facts relating to Mrs. Glover have been gleaned from Cotton
  Mather, Upham, Drake, Moore, Owens, Calef, Cartrie, and papers of the
  Massachusetts Historical Society.

Footnote 5:

  Of Elizabeth, N. J. This paper was originally contributed to the
  Elizabeth _Evening Times_, Jan. 27, 1905.

Footnote 6:

  Colonel Proctor was a native of Ireland.

Footnote 7:

  General Knox was born in Boston of Irish parentage.

Footnote 8:

  Of New York. President-General of the Society. This paper is from Mr.
  Crimmins’ recent work, _Early Celebrations of St. Patrick’s Day_.

Footnote 9:

  Of Mayville, Chautauqua County, N. Y. A descendant of William
  Prendergast, the pioneer.

Footnote 10:

  This paper was prepared by Mr. Scales for the New Hampshire Historical
  Society, and was read by him before that body. It is here republished
  by permission.

Footnote 11:

  At A meeting of the Select men in Dover the 20^{th} of May 1723
  ordered that 2 Schoolmasters be Procured for the Towne of Dover for
  the year Ensuing, and that ther Sallery Exceed not £30 Payment a Peece
  and to attend the Directtions of the Select men for the Servis of the
  Towne in Equi’ll Proportion.

  Test

                                              Thomas Tebets, Towne Clark

  At the Same time Mr. Sullefund Exseps to Sarve the Towne above^{sd} as
  Scoole master three months Sertin and begins his Servis y^e 21^{th}
  Day of May 1723, and also y^e S^d Sullefund Promised the Selectmen if
  he left them Soonner he would give them a month notis to Provide
  themselves with a nother, and the Select men was also to give him a
  month notis if they Disliked him.

  Test.

                                         Thomas Tebbets, Towne Clark.

                                         Dover Town Records, A. D. 1723.

Footnote 12:

  This name has also been rendered Darby.—EDITOR.

  NOTE. As Master John Sullivan here states that he was the son of Major
  Philip O’Sullivan, his own name was, therefore, originally O’Sullivan.
  At what period, and under what circumstances he dropped the “O,” is
  not now known.—ED.

Footnote 13:

  This sketch was written by Miss Fitzgerald, for the American-Irish
  Historical Society, at the request of the Knights of St. Patrick of
  San Francisco. The latter organization is, collectively, a life member
  of the Society. Miss Fitzgerald is a granddaughter of Mr. Murphy, the
  pioneer here mentioned, and resides in Gilroy, California, in the
  beautiful Santa Clara valley.

Footnote 14:

  Grandson of Mathew Carey. This memoir is mainly compiled from a paper
  contributed by Mr. Baird to _The American Bookseller_, New York City.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected typographical errors and variations in spelling.
 2. Anachronistic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings retained as
      printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 4. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.
 5. Superscripts are denoted by a caret before a single superscript
      character or a series of superscripted characters enclosed in
      curly braces, e.g. M^r. or M^{ister}.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Journal of the American-Irish
Historical Society (Vol. V), by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY ***

***** This file should be named 61037-0.txt or 61037-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/0/3/61037/

Produced by Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This book was
produced from images made available by the HathiTrust
Digital Library.)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

